
The Soul Eater
C onfusion flashed across her face as the vampires surged forward and seized her. She fought their greedy, clutching hands as she looked toward us. “Cyrus? What’s going on?” My own panicked brain echoed her question. “This was what you wanted,” Cyrus snarled at me before rounding on Ziggy. “I thought you’d feed her to your father!” I gripped his arm, but I didn’t have the strength to stop him as he turned away from me. “No fucking way!” Ziggy struggled against the guards and actually managed to break their hold. He fell to the hard stone, scrambling backward on his hands and feet like a frightened crab. He didn’t get far. “No!” I shouted as Cyrus descended on him. There was a sickening crunch as muscle and vein gave way under fangs. Ziggy’s agonized screams filled the air, a death rattle of blood gurgling from his throat. I needed something, anything to use as a weapon. Ziggy’s cries slowed, then stopped altogether, and his body hung limp in Cyrus’s arms. Dahlia faired much better. She shrieked a command and the vampires fell back in a wave. She ran toward the maze, never looking back. The Fangs followed her, whooping war cries as they disappeared into the dark hedges. The diners who were unaffected by Dahlia’s flight murmured in surprise and looked around uncomfortably. Cyrus rose and left Ziggy unconscious where he lay. I watched, sickened, as Cyrus wiped a rivulet of blood from his chin and raised his arms. His roughened voice and savage vampire face made him seem more evil, if that were possible. “Ladies and gentlemen, enjoy the hunt.” Behind us, the doors pushed open and a frantic group of humans flooded the terrace. They ran for their lives and would have trampled Ziggy, had I not knelt over him and shielded his vulnerable body. “Ziggy, can you hear me?” I pulled him into my lap and pressed my hand to the oozing wound on his neck. Blood should have been spraying from his gashed throat, if there was enough blood left to spray. He opened his eyes, but they rolled back into his head as his body seized in my arms. Most of the pets ran straight for the maze, herded toward it by the pursuing vampires. A few of the humans broke away from the crowd and were caught as they tried to climb the garden walls. Cyrus watched for a long moment, something akin to pride on his face. Then he turned to us and raised his wrist. “Shall I turn him, or will you?” “No!” I shouted again, trying to cover Ziggy by leaning over him, but my answer was swallowed up by the pandemonium. “I made a mistake. I wanted him to live.” “Well, it’s not bloody likely now, is it?” Cyrus asked dispassionately. “Look, we’ll get you another one.” Tears rolled down my cheeks, stinging my cold flesh. “This wasn’t how it was supposed to happen.” Cyrus frowned. “What are you talking about?” He suspected something. Amid the screams and destruction around us, I let my guard down, my guilt and terror flooding the blood tie.



Over all this, a new sound emerged. The steady thump of rotary blades chopping through the air. I’d often heard the sound at the hospital, when accident victims were brought in by helicopter. The medical chopper had nothing on the three sleek, black, military-style copters that dipped below the tree line. I stared up at the sky, transfixed by the whirling blades. My heart swelled with a mixture of dread and hope. The hour of salvation had arrived, too late for Ziggy. Or me, for that matter. Without him, my safety wasn’t assured. I wrapped my arms around Ziggy’s chest and stood, half lifting him. He gasped and a cascade of blood poured over my hands. He wasn’t going to last much longer. Cyrus shouted frantically to his guards. New screams erupted from the hedge maze, the petrified cries of vampires trapped like foxes in snares, as one by one they realized what was happening. The helicopters’ floodlights snapped on and pure UV rays drenched the lawn in artificial sunlight. The heat and glare made my skin sizzle, but there wasn’t enough direct exposure to kill me on the shaded porch where we were. Others weren’t so lucky. The few vampires who made it clear of the maze exploded into flame and burned before they could reach the terrace. Only a handful made it to the house, pushing past us and charging through the glass doors. Long ropes fell from both sides of each helicopter and dark figures dropped onto the lawn. The assassins had arrived. Twenty of them slid to the ground, covered in head-to-toe black gear. On their heads they wore black hoods and dark goggles. Leather gloves and boots protected their hands and feet. Not a centimeter of their skin was exposed. They were impressively efficient. The vampires that didn’t burn quickly enough were staked. A few were decapitated with long, studded knives. It was gruesome. Headless bodies burst into fire, skin and muscle flaking to embers in the wind generated by the helicopters. For a brief second, all that remained of them was a flash of blue flame where their heart should be, just before their ribs turned to ash and crumbled to the lawn. Cyrus fled past me, the right side of his face scorched by the lights. “I’ll deal with you later! Run!” But I couldn’t leave Ziggy to die alone. I struggled backward to the door, dragging him with me, as my sire ran to cowardly safety. The assassins surged up the lawn in a lethal wave. A thin line of smoke wafted off of the top of the head of one of the assassins. He lifted a walkie-talkie to his face, mumbled into it, and the lights cut off in sync. I searched the lawn frantically for any sign of Nathan. How would I find him when they were all dressed the same? One of them pointed in my direction as I gained the door. “Don’t hurt him!” I screamed, dropping Ziggy to the marble floor of the foyer. I laid across him, wincing at the rattle I heard in his chest. “He’s human! Don’t hurt him!” Without a word, the killer reached down and lifted Ziggy’s legs before he barked at the others filing into the house. “I want a sweep of the grounds, and the house upstairs and down. Max, Amy, get the ground lights, and for God’s sake, let’s find the Soul Eater!



Carrie, get him by the shoulders!” It was Nathan. Numb, I grabbed Ziggy under his arms. Seeing the doors were open, I nodded in the direction of the study. It was dark, but my eyes adjusted in time to guide Nathan to the corner farthest from the door. He eased Ziggy to the ground and whipped off his hood to examine the wound. “It’s pretty bad,” I said softly. “Even if we got him in an ambulance now—” “Shut up!” Nathan shouted, lifting Ziggy in his arms. “He’s gonna be fine. Aren’t you, kid?” Ziggy’s head lolled to the side, and he choked on his blood as he struggled to speak. Only two words came out clearly. One was home. The other was Dad. “Yeah. We’re going home,” Nathan whispered, smoothing Ziggy’s hair back from his forehead. “Daddy’s got you, and we’re going home.” I covered my mouth as a sob threatened to tear from my throat. Outside the door, a war waged. No one knew that in this room, a father held his dying son. No one except us, and the Soul Eater. I’d forgotten his presence, had even run past his coffin as we’d entered the room without a second thought. Now dread overwhelmed me. My gaze fell on the casket. It was empty, the lid torn off the hinges. “Nathan…” He would be no help, I realized, as I watched him cradle Ziggy close, half rocking on the hard floor. The sight was too painful. I had to look away. The Soul Eater was somewhere in the house. Then I remembered the vial of holy water Nathan had given me. I’d tucked it into my bra as I’d dressed for the party. I’d just fished it out when the doorknob rattled. “Nathan!” He was on his feet beside me, his face expressionless. “Ziggy’s dead.” “I’m sorry,” I whispered. “Is there anything I can—” “There’s really not time for that now.” Nathan stepped in front of me. “Whatever comes through that door, run like hell.” “Excuse me?” Just then the doors burst open. Cyrus stood in the doorway, rage twisting his burned face. “I should have known,” he hissed as his one remaining eye moved between Nathan and I. Nathan strode forward. “Simon Seymour, son of Jacob Seymour, by order of the Voluntary Vampire Extinction Movement, I charge you with the destruction of humans, the creation of new vampires, and the crime of aiding your sire, the Soul Eater, in his own offenses. How do you plead?” A cruel smile formed on Cyrus’s lips. “I never plead for anything. Certainly not to a whelp like you.” Nathan stood his ground as Cyrus moved closer. He watched Cyrus warily, as though he were a deadly snake about to strike. “Dear Nolen. Stupid as ever.” Nathan clenched his fists. “How do you plead to the charges, Cyrus?” “Does it matter? I’m unarmed, and no match for you, should you choose to strike me down in my weakened and vulnerable state.” After a deliberate pause, he added, “Like you did your wife.”



Nathan’s body, tensed to the breaking point, snapped into motion. As his hands closed around my sire’s throat, I wanted to kill him. My heart constricted in grief and horror at the thought Nathan might hurt Cyrus. “Do you think she’ll survive without me?” Cyrus wheezed. “The tie is too strong between us. But that doesn’t matter, does it? You didn’t even save the pathetic human boy.” “Shut up,” Nathan growled, slamming Cyrus into the wall. Faintly, through the frantic staccato of my pulse, I heard Cyrus laugh. “You don’t really believe you’ve changed? Just because you’ve killed a few of the bad guys?” Nathan crushed Cyrus’s head against the wall, and I slumped to the floor, my chest tightening painfully so that I could only take fast, shallow breaths. When Cyrus spoke, his voice was ragged, but the hate there was unmistakable. “Kill me then, Nolen. It will be worth it to see the satisfaction in your eyes. I’ll die knowing you’re worthy of our sire’s blood.” Nathan’s hands flexed, squeezing Cyrus’s neck with fury, but Cyrus rallied one last time and shoved Nathan backward, hard. Nathan lost his balance and toppled to the floor. As he pulled himself up, he snarled, “I’m taking her with me.” Cyrus stepped aside, rubbing his neck as he leaned against the wall. “Fine. You’re welcome to her.” Before Nathan or I could react, Cyrus lunged forward and grabbed me by the wrist, spinning me into his arms like a dance. “How many pieces would you like to carry her out in? Two?” He twisted my arm until the long bones of my forearm snapped like dried twigs. I’d never actually broken a bone before. Man, did it hurt. Screaming in pain and anger like a wounded animal, I flailed my free hand to break the vial I still clutched in my fist. If I had to, I’d spray us both with it. “What’s this?” Cyrus hissed into my ear. “A token of affection from your knight protector?” He pried my fingers loose and snatched the bottle. Ferocious fingers seized my chin and squeezed my face roughly, forcing my jaw down. “All this time you let me think I’d created the perfect companion, and you were just waiting to sink the stake into my heart.” He popped the lid off the vial and tilted it. A single drop hung on the edge, poised to fall directly into my open mouth. “We’re more alike than I thought.” “Don’t do it,” Nathan warned. “Why? Because you’ll kill me? You’ve already proved you can’t. You’d enjoy it too much.” Cyrus tipped the vial a little more. The suspended drop trembled and I closed my eyes. I wasn’t ready to die. I might not have anything to live for, but an empty life sounded a lot better than an uncertain afterlife. “Please,” I whimpered as best I could with limited movement of my jaw. “Oh, shut up, Carrie. What a useless specimen you’ve turned out to be. Did you think you could betray me with no consequence?” His fingers gripped my face tighter. “What were you planning to do? Beg for mercy? Tell me you love me?” Though it burned my soul to do it, I nodded a little, terrified my movement would bring the liquid onto my flesh. “I do love you.” It wasn’t completely a lie, but he didn’t buy it. I



couldn’t exactly blame him. “Do you think I’m stupid? Do you think I didn’t sense your betrayal?” He licked my ear. “Every moment I was inside you, I felt your uncertainty. Your fear of me. You never made your choice.” Nathan sucked in a sharp breath, and hot shame flooded my face. “Oh, does that bother you, Nolen?” Cyrus bit my neck softly. “I bet you thought you were rescuing a pure damsel. Don’t let her fool you. She begged for it. She let me use her like a whore and she drank my blood as payment.” “Gentlemen don’t kiss and tell,” Nathan quipped. How can he joke at a time like this? “I never claimed to be a gentleman. Unlike others in this room, I don’t deny my true nature.” Cyrus let the drop of holy water fall. I twisted away and it landed on the bare shoulder of my injured arm. The liquid burrowed through my skin and the flesh underneath like a scorching bullet. I bit my lip to stifle my cries. “I do wish you’d scream, Carrie. You have such a beautiful scream.” He sighed and tipped the bottle again. “Ah, well, just one of the things I’ll miss about you.” The vial flew from his hand before he could spill the rest on me, and his grip released. I fell to the floor. I couldn’t move my arm, and it felt as if it had been severed from my body while it hung lame at my side. Nathan pinned Cyrus to the wall, his face changing as he flashed his fangs. The holy water splashed their legs, and smoke rose from the floor where it burned their feet. Cyrus brought his knee up and kicked Nathan away. He hit the floor and rolled out of reach. I saw Cyrus withdraw a stake from his sleeve. I shouldn’t have been surprised that he’d lied about being unarmed. I jumped on him, sinking my fingernails into his face. One finger slipped into his empty eye socket, and it was all I could do to keep from yanking my hand away in disgust. He twisted violently, dislodging me, but I landed on my feet. When he stopped to wipe the blood from his eyes I was on him again, locking my legs around his waist and pummeling him from behind. He threw himself backward, crushing me between his body and the wall. The breath rushed from my lungs in a great whoosh and I slid to the floor, clutching my chest. He stood over me, ready to strike. Nathan got to his feet and slammed his elbow into the back of Cyrus’s head, bringing him to the ground. Once he was down, Nathan delivered vicious kicks to the back of his head until he stopped struggling. “Is he dead?” I gasped, using Nathan’s proffered arm to climb to my feet. He didn’t look at me. His gaze was locked on Ziggy’s motionless body. “No. And he won’t be out for long. Let me get Ziggy and we’ll go.” As soon as he uttered those words, the doors to the foyer blew off their hinges. A forceful and foul-smelling wind blew us both against the wall in a shower of wood splinters. Ashes exploded from the cold fireplace as flames leapt up seemingly from nowhere, and the remaining furniture turned over from the magnitude of the blast. A tall, sickly vampire slid into the room. His eyes burned red, and his long white hair trailed behind him as he floated effortlessly above the ground. Although he looked much older, and though I was nearly overcome by the stench of decay, I recognized him.



It was Cyrus’s father. The Soul Eater. “Carrie, run!” Nathan shouted. He sprang toward Ziggy’s body. I grabbed him by the arm. “No, Nathan, there’s nothing you can do for him!” The ancient vampire slowly came closer, his bloody, dripping claws outstretched. “Don’t go. I’m so hungry,” he said, the sound of many voices speaking all at once. “Fuck you!” Nathan screamed, and for a moment I thought he’d charge him without a weapon. “You took everything from me!” He’d totally lost it. I’d never seen anyone so angry. All the resentment and rage that Nathan had been holding back from the world finally surfaced as he howled at the Soul Eater. The vampire cocked his head, like a child who couldn’t understand why he was being punished. “Just let me have a taste. A little taste.” The Soul Eater pointed to me. “You. Come to me.” “No!” Nathan grabbed my hand and ran for the door. “Don’t run from me, boy!” The Soul Eater’s tone was like fire. “I smell my blood on you! Why do you not serve your master?” “I will never serve you again.” The assassins poured down the stairs. Some had removed their hoods, and they high-fived each other on a job well done. “Get out!” Nathan shouted. “The Soul Eater’s awake!” It had never occurred to me their plan might have hinged on the Soul Eater’s vegetative state, but power had radiated from the old vampire. Logic and instinct collided in my brain, and I knew even this large number of assassins were no match for his awesome strength. They knew it, as well. It didn’t take them long to move. They ran for the back door, some jumping over the stair railing to save time. But Nathan had a different exit planned for us. I tripped over my ridiculous shoes and wrenched my ankle. Nathan never missed a beat. “Hang on,” he ordered, scooping me up in his arms. He slung me over his shoulder like a sack of potatoes and ran out the front door, down the steps and onto the driveway, then across the snow-covered lawn. “Just a little farther,” he repeated over and over, a determined mantra more for his benefit than mine. I held on to him for dear life with my one usable arm as he struggled to keep his footing on the grass. Please don’t fall and break both of our necks. Not now, not when we’re so close to getting away. The front gate was closed. “Can you climb?” I wiggled my good arm. “I can try.” “Good enough for me.” He boosted me up. I scrambled to the top, but slipped going over and fell to my feet on the pavement. The wicked heel of my shoe slid from beneath me, further twisting my injured leg. I swore loudly at the pain. Nathan was at the top when he heard me. He jumped and landed next to me, rolling to his feet. “Can you walk?” I shook my head. “I don’t think so.”



He lifted me into his arms and ran across the street, where Ziggy’s van waited. Nathan unlocked the door and dumped me onto the passenger seat. He hopped into the driver’s side and started the engine, and I braced myself against the dashboard as he stomped on the gas. I looked in the rearview and watched as we sped toward safety. Behind us, three black helicopters rose into the night air as the tiny, flickering lights of distant police cars approached. “You’re going to be okay,” Nathan said hoarsely. “We’re gonna be fine.” I took the assurance at face value, and since there was nothing left for me to do, I slumped against the seat and closed my eyes.

Nineteen The Assassins
I woke beside Nathan in his bed. The last rays of sunlight were fading from the sky, and all around us the room glowed a rosy pink. I sat up, careful not to disturb him or jostle my wounded arm. He’d taken the time to fashion a makeshift sling out of an old T-shirt before we’d both collapsed with exhaustion, but I still wasn’t healed. I might have been in a lot worse shape if Nathan hadn’t helped me. His eyes were closed, his face smudged with dirt and sweat and blood. He still wore his black uniform, but the shirt had come untucked as he slept. His flat stomach was exposed, and I lay my hand there, taking comfort in the feeling of another body beside me. “Please tell me you’re in the process of giving me the best wake-up call I’ve had in a long time,” he mumbled sleepily. I smiled. “I’m sorry, I didn’t mean to wake you.” “It would have happened sooner or later.” He sat up and swung his legs over the side of the bed, frowning at the boots he still wore. “You want some breakfast?” “Maybe in a little while. I think I want to go back to sleep.” He got to his feet. “We’ve a busy night ahead of us.” I groaned and shuffled my feet as I followed him down the hall. My injured ankle caused me to limp pathetically. As we entered the bathroom, Nathan halted at the sight of two half-used bottles of blue and magenta hair dye. The giddy relief I’d felt at escaping death had filled me so completely that I hadn’t had room for anything else. But this reminder of Ziggy created plenty of space for sorrow, anger and, above all, guilt. “I’m so, so sorry,” I whispered. I wanted to touch Nathan, to comfort him. But as usual, he seemed untouchable. With an unconcerned shrug I knew he didn’t mean, he pulled his shirt over his head. His body looked less tempting than usual, as though pain and exhaustion had sapped him of some of his perfection. Or perhaps my body wasn’t in any shape to fool around. “We’ve got to meet with the assassins tonight. Cyrus is still out there.” Nathan turned on the shower and unfastened his belt as if I wasn’t there, as if he didn’t care I was. Debating whether it would be more awkward to stay or make a fuss about leaving, I pretended to look for something in the medicine cabinet. His belt buckle jingled as he kicked off his pants, and I waited to hear the rattle of the curtain rings before I allowed my gaze to roam



anywhere else. “So, are you okay?” I said as I closed the cabinet door. “Why wouldn’t I be?” “Because Zi—” I couldn’t say it. “Because of what happened last night.” “People die.” “Yeah, they do, but he was kind of your only family.” “Let’s not talk about it right now. I’ve got other things to worry about.” The hairs on the back of my neck prickled. I left the bathroom without another word. The clothes Nathan had bought me were still at Cyrus’s. I swiped a pair of Nathan’s jeans and a sweater that required some maneuvering to put on over my injured arm. I listened as the water cut off in the bathroom. Nathan came in to retrieve some clothes, a towel wrapped around his waist. He didn’t speak to me, but eyed my attire with an expression that would have been amusement had his eyes not looked so sad. I’d never felt so in the way in my entire life. If not for the dim light outside, I would have just made some excuse to leave. As it was, I had to settle for a different part of the apartment. The living room looked cold and alien. A pair of Ziggy’s shoes sat by the door. A stack of heavy metal CDs took up the corner of the coffee table, and a backpack full of college textbooks leaned against the couch. It was like a pharaoh’s tomb, a museum of my failure to protect him and of Nathan’s loss. I went to the kitchen and pulled a bag of blood from the refrigerator. I was looking for something to cut the top of the bag with when Nathan’s hand gripped my arm. I jumped, dropping the bag. He caught it and cradled it against his chest as if it were a priceless artifact. “What?” I demanded, rubbing my offended arm. “It’s the last one. I don’t want to drink it.” His voice was tight and he strained to get the words out. My heart lurched at the full import of his statement. “Oh. Oh, God.” I stared, mesmerized by the shimmering liquid contained within the dull plastic. The millions of cells were the last physical evidence of Ziggy’s life on earth. Nathan opened the freezer door and unceremoniously dumped the bag inside. “How about we talk about this?” I said without thinking, and I was glad. I might not have said it otherwise. “How about you mind your own business?” Nathan didn’t exactly hide his face from me, but he didn’t look at me, either, as he went through the cupboards, taking out pans, bowls and pancake mix. “You’re not a vegetarian, are you?” I planted my hands on my hips, cringing at the sting the motion caused. “It’s kinda tough to be a vegetarian vampire. Unless you’re Bunnicula.” He actually laughed at that. I arched an eyebrow. “You know Bunnicula?” He grew serious again. “I read it to Ziggy when he was younger. Will you get the bacon out of the freezer?” He turned away from me in an effort to hide his suffering. I couldn’t believe that after all we’d been through together that he would continue to shut me out. I walked over to him and placed a hand on his shoulder, and he immediately jerked away



from it. Tears of anger sprang to my eyes. “You asshole.” Nathan turned around, his expression dark. “Fine. I’ll make sausage instead.” I clenched my good fist. “You know what I’m talking about.” He opened the fridge and pulled out eggs and milk, pointedly turning the side of the carton labeled Z away from himself. “I do. And I told you before, I don’t want to talk about it.” “Well, I do!” I stamped my foot. Nathan poured the milk and the pancake mix into the bowl without measuring, the way a mother would after years of preparing breakfast for her family. Except I’d never seen a mother with such a murderous scowl. Nathan suddenly threw down the wooden spoon in his hand. It bounced off the rim of the glass bowl and splattered half-mixed batter everywhere. “Just because I don’t want to stand here and have a Hallmark moment with you doesn’t mean I didn’t love Ziggy. I cared about him more than somebody like you could ever understand!” “Somebody like me?” I hated the shrillness of my voice when I was mad. “What the hell is that supposed to mean?” He folded his arms across his chest. “You tell me. What exactly did you have to do to keep him safe, Carrie? And so I can appreciate how indebted to you I should be, how much did you enjoy it?” His remark twisted like a knife in my heart, just as he’d intended. Rage set my limbs trembling. I lashed out. “I did what I had to do! Unlike some people in this room!” “What are you talking about?” “Why didn’t you give Ziggy your blood? You could have saved him. All it would have taken was a little of your blood! Why didn’t you do it?” The question had hung between us since the moment we left the mansion. It had been the cause for the tension we’d felt all morning. Nathan looked at me, his eyes filled with confusion. “You think I let him die?” The pain in his voice stole my will to fight. “Do you think you let him die?” With a growl of fury, he shoved all the dishes and utensils off the counter. The glass bowl shattered at his feet, and the clang of metal nearly deafened me as the pans collided with linoleum. Nathan stalked forward, and I took a step back out of reflex more than fear. He wouldn’t hurt me. No matter how tough he tried to appear, he wasn’t the type to abuse someone weaker than himself. “I would rather have him dead than be one of us!” he shouted, so close to my face that his cold breath stirred my hair. “You only know your change. You got to stay the same person you were before. Not everyone is so lucky. The blood has different effects on people. It does something to you, it makes you do things you wouldn’t normally do.” I looked down, all too aware that I could have just as easily saved Ziggy with my own blood. “You saw that, that thing.” Nathan spat the word, as though no reference to his sire could ever accurately describe his hideousness. “His blood is in mine. How could I put that into my son? How could I make him…” He was running out of anger, and all that was left for him was despair. “How could I make him like me?” On the last word, his face went ashen and his shoulders sagged in defeat. He crumpled to the floor with a cry of anguish.



