


cleared, the room was gone. Instead, I saw the E.R., and my own panicked expression. I was inside Cyrus’s mangled body as he lay on the gurney. I saw myself staring in abject horror at the patient before me. I jerked my hand from his and found myself in my own body, in the present time. “My very own angel of mercy.” I felt his tongue, surprisingly hot, against my neck. “You tasted so good.” Suddenly, my memory of the demon who’d carved me up broke through. The claws that had ripped my flesh. The sadistic eyes staring down as I’d cowered, terrified and unable to defend myself. I broke free. “Get away from me!” Though he looked much different than he had in vampire form, all I could see was his resemblance to John Doe. He folded his arms across his chest as he regarded me. “Oh, you have fire in you. I’ll have so much fun with that.” From his perversely satisfied tone, I gathered it wasn’t good, clean, car-bingo-type fun he spoke of. “I’m not interested. And speaking of fire, burning down my apartment isn’t exactly the way to a girl’s heart.” “No,” he agreed with a frown, closing the distance between us. “I find the more effective route is directly through the rib cage.” “What do you want?” I demanded. Looping his arms around my waist, he drew me closer. “You came to me, Carrie. It seems you are the one who desires something.” He nuzzled my neck, rubbing his lips across the scar there. I closed my eyes, too willing to give in to the sensations coursing through my veins. “I want answers.” “Yet you haven’t asked any questions.” His teeth grazed my skin. “But you don’t really want to talk.” “Yes, I do,” I insisted, trying to pull away from him. He held me fast. “Your body tells me something entirely different. You want me. I can smell it on you.” I ground my teeth. “It’s the blood tie. If you were any other guy, I’d have slapped you by now.” “If you were any other woman, you’d be dead by now.” Despite his menacing words, he let me go. “I slept quite late this evening and I haven’t had my breakfast. Would you care to join me?” “Will you answer my questions?” “That depends on what you ask. But yes, Carrie. I will give you the answers you’ve so bravely sought.” He held out his hand for me, and I bit my lip, considering his offer. Was this a trick? A trap? But he couldn’t have known I was coming. He hadn’t even known who I was when he’d first seen me. There would have been no time to plan anything devious. At worst, I’d spend an uncomfortable meal trying to fight the effects of the blood tie. At best, I’d get a better understanding of what had happened to me. I slipped my hand into his and let him lead me to another room. The dining room was large and windowless. It was even more ostentatious than the ballroom, if that were possible. Dark wood paneling covered the walls, and the only light came from candles held in ornate silver sconces. Cyrus pulled out a chair from the long dining table and motioned for me to sit. Then he sat at my right, at the head of the table.



The table was long enough for twenty people, but it was only set for two. Crystal wineglasses took the place of plates. The largest covered platter I had ever seen dominated the center of the table. I wondered who he’d planned on sharing his meal with before I arrived. “Dahlia.” Cyrus replied to my thought as he gracefully smoothed a napkin over his lap. A dainty crystal bell lay by his left hand, and he rang it. It unnerved me that he could read my private thoughts so easily. A distinguished-looking black butler entered, followed by two of the guards. The butler reached for the shining silver dome over the platter and hesitated at the sight of me. One of the guards made a noise. The butler glared at them and whisked away the cover. “Your breakfast, sir,” he said, a look of distaste on his age-lined features. The nude body of a young woman lay on the platter. She was obviously dead. Her blank eyes stared sightlessly at the ceiling, one hand propped limply on her breast. Her other arm stretched high above her head, mimicking the curve of the platter. Someone had thought to garnish her with rose petals. The woman was displayed beautifully before us like a Renaissance goddess. I was horrified by my reaction. This woman was dead, her remains exploited for aesthetic purposes. To please the man sitting beside me. The terror I should have felt from his presence fought to the surface, then was quickly drowned once again by the blood tie. Despite all the harm he’d already done to me, it seemed absurd that he would ever hurt me again. I caught myself yearning to touch him, desperate for the security of a physical connection, and I squashed the feeling down. He’s a monster. A murderer. You’re smarter than this. “Thank you, Clarence, that will be all,” Cyrus said with a polite nod. The butler and guards departed. Cyrus stood and reached for my glass. He lifted the dead girl’s arm and flicked his razor-sharp fingernails across her wrist. Dark red blood poured from the wound. She hadn’t been deceased for long. The calm, matter-of-fact manner in which he handled the corpse made it seem perfectly normal to be dining off a dead body. I stopped reminding myself to be horrified—what good would it do me?—and concentrated on the questions I wanted answers to. He filled his glass next and lifted it to his nose, savoring the scent. I ignored my glass, but he didn’t seem to mind. “Now, what were we talking about?” he asked after he sat again. “You mentioned Dahlia. Were you reading my mind?” He drank deeply from his glass, then dabbed his lips with his napkin. “Of course. You wondered who I had planned on dining with since the table was set for two. Dahlia sometimes likes to consume human blood, and I indulge her.” “Is she a vampire?” It was a silly question. I knew I would have recognized his blood in the taste of hers. As I expected, he shook his head. “No. Dahlia is very sweet, one of my favorite pets, actually. But I’d never make her one of us. She’s not…special? I suppose that is the word for it.” “And I was special?” I felt a surprising sympathy for the girl. She thought I’d taken her place when there had actually been nothing to take. But that’s not what concerned me most. “Can you read my mind all the time?”



“If I want to.” He smiled. “And to answer your first question, yes, you’re special.” “But I was an accident,” I said as I fixed him with a piercing stare. “I remember that night, or at least, most of it. You never fed me your blood. It got into me when I stabbed you, but you didn’t mean for it to happen.” Sighing heavily, he leaned back in his chair. He studied me for a long moment before speaking again. “You have my blood, Carrie. Even if I didn’t intend to share it with you, it still flows through your veins. It makes you precious to me.” I glared at him. “You attacked me and left me for dead. I wasn’t so precious to you then.” He raised his hand to stop me. “Please, excuse me. These damned eyes, they dry out so quickly.” He lifted a small knife and plunged it into his borrowed eye. The organ fell to the table with a soft, squishy sound and flattened. A gruesome image of the dead morgue attendant flashed through my mind. Cyrus leaned over the face of the dead girl and carved out one of her eyes. When he’d inserted his replacement, he freed the second eye from the corpse and dropped it into his glass. It sank to the bottom like an olive in a martini. “I had two perfectly good eyes before I returned to this city. Fresh ones are hard to come by, and they wear out before you’ve gotten much use from them.” My physician’s curiosity took over then, distracting me from our earlier line of conversation. “How does it work?” “I don’t know.” He blinked a few times, as though he’d just put in new contact lenses. A thin line of blood ran like a tear down his cheek. “I’m assuming it has something to do with the regenerative humors in human blood.” “There’s no such thing as humors. Does it work with other body parts? Limbs?” I scooted forward in my chair. “What about teeth?” “How do I know? Carrie, I understand your thirst for knowledge, but there are questions even the blasted Sanguinarius can’t answer.” He sipped from his glass. The eye inside rolled around to stare at me. I was going to barf. Cyrus either didn’t notice or didn’t care. “I’ll have the servants prepare your room, but I fear it won’t be ready before dawn. You can stay with me today. I’m sure we can find some engaging activity to fill the boring daylight hours.” “Whoa, whoa.” I waved my hands in front of me as though I were signaling a plane. “I’m not staying.” Not that I wasn’t tempted. The blood tie was an incredible aphrodisiac, despite the fact I’d just watched him pick over a dead body as if it were a rotisserie chicken. But I had only come here in need of information, not an unfathomably dirty one-night stand. Cyrus’s expression darkened. “I thought you said your apartment burned down. Surely you need a place to stay.” “I have other options. Did you do it so I’d have no place else to go?” “I didn’t do it at all. If Dahlia harmed your property, then I’m sorry. The drama of fire seems to hold some fascination for her. I can’t undo what she’s done. All I can offer you is a place to stay. And a few amusements.” He reached across the table to stroke my hand. I rolled my eyes. “That’s a lovely sentiment, but there’s this organization who’ll want to kill me if I stay here with you.”



“The Movement?” His rich laughter filled the dining room. “They’d like to cage us all and let us die.” “You don’t think much of them,” I said. “No. I don’t. I’ve longed for a companion for years, but because of the restrictions in place by the damned Movement, I have been unable to retain any of the fledglings I’ve sired.” So he didn’t know about his pet and her penchant for offing the competition. I couldn’t believe he would be so dense, but if he was really lonely, perhaps he purposely overlooked her transgressions. Maybe a murderous companion was better than none at all. Cyrus stood and moved behind me, placing his long fingers on my shoulders. “Fate has put us in a unique situation. Why not come to an arrangement that will be beneficial for both of us? You become the companion I’ve been seeking, and I’ll teach you to use the full extent of your power, power the Movement would deny you.” “What kind of power?” He smiled like a used-car salesman. “The power to rule, of course. The power over life and death and the strength to wield it to your advantage.” A pang of longing washed over me. I’d loved the seemingly God-like powers I’d believed I’d held as a doctor. But that illusion had been ripped apart the night Cyrus had destroyed my perceptions of death and accidentally set me apart from both. “I thought I had that before. I ended up bleeding to death in the morgue,” I said, shaking my head. “Why should I believe you? I don’t know you that well. You might just kill me again.” “I might,” he said finally. “I’m not generally regarded as someone to be trusted.” I looked over the rapidly purpling body on the table. “No kidding?” He knelt at my side. “Search your heart, Carrie. I have faith you’ll make the right choice.” Some choice. I could live only if I pledged my allegiance to the Movement, or I could live to be Cyrus’s little wifey. Either way, I was a slave. A prisoner. A prostitute. “I’ve made my decision. Us meeting, that was an accident. I’m not fated to be your companion, or whatever the heck you’re looking for.” “Tell me, Doctor, do you follow many of your patients to the morgue?” he asked with a knowing smile. “You followed me. You wanted me.” “You were dead. That’s not my bag. Sorry.” He reached out his hands again, but I dodged them. “If that’s what you believe, I can’t change your mind,” he said, gesturing to the door. I stood and headed for it, but Cyrus called after me. “Dahlia is useful. She’s only alive because she amuses me. Not because I love her. And she doesn’t love me.” His voice was quiet and sad. “I’m sorry if you’re unhappy.” And I was. I could feel his desperation, his hurt, his anger. But I could also feel the cool edge of manipulation. He was confident I would cave in. He continued, and his sorrow sounded genuine. “I only want to protect you.” “I don’t need protection, Cyrus. I need time to think.” I walked away. “If I go through that door, will the guards stop me?” Cyrus shook his head. “Will you return?” I thought of Nathan and his undying loyalty to the Movement. Would I ever become so indoctrinated to their rhetoric? Was I even susceptible to such brainwashing? “I don’t



know. Maybe.” His sorrow instantly changed to anger. “I’m your sire, Carrie. You belong to me.” So this was the true nature of his game. He would coerce me into staying. “I don’t belong to anyone.” The words gave me courage as I spoke them. “I don’t belong to my job, I don’t belong to a man, I don’t belong to the Movement, and I sure as hell don’t belong to you. I have five days left to make a decision. If I choose to return to you, I will. But I’m not stupid, Cyrus. You didn’t make me on purpose. You didn’t make me out of love. You meant to kill me in the morgue. I was an accident. And I don’t owe you anything.” I walked out the door and didn’t look back.

Seven June 23, 1924
C yrus’s word was good. No guards accosted me as I left the house. My head swam with a tremendous mix of emotions. The rage came from Cyrus. I could still hear his screams of fury and the crash of things breaking inside the house as I crossed the lawn. My sadness weighed heavy on me as my feet hit the sidewalk. I didn’t know what I’d expected to find in Cyrus. A mentor? A friend? An ally against the shadowy threat of the Movement, which demanded I live for them or not live at all? What I’d found was another dead end. Cyrus would rule me as surely as the Movement would, and that wasn’t something I could accept. My whole life, I’d been ruled by one thing or another. First, my father, who’d been so busy planning my future career, I’d wondered how he’d found time for his own. “You’re my job, Carrie. It’s my duty to see you do well in life.” How disappointed he’d be in me now. But then, I’d been just as bad as him, pushing aside adolescent dreams of romance for study and determination, until medicine consumed my life and any relationship that wasn’t a calculated career move seemed like a waste of time. I’d let so many trivial things get in the way of my own happiness that I couldn’t remember what the things that might have made me happy were anymore. My body grew numb as I walked back to Nathan’s apartment. I hadn’t left a note, but I’m sure the hastily riffled-through faxes would give him a hint as to where I’d been. Tension coiled like electricity in the air as I crossed the street. The windows of the apartment were dark, but the shop’s easel sign was on the sidewalk. I steeled myself against the unavoidable stench of incense and headed down the stairs to the bookshop. There was no need for the precaution. The air was clear and no peaceful music soothed me as I entered the room and leaned against the counter. I heard muffled cursing, followed by the distinctive thud of books hitting the floor. “Need some help?” I called. Swearing followed a startling bang. Nathan emerged from the shelves, one hand pressed against the top of his head. “You’re back,” he said flatly, wincing as he ran his fingers through his hair. “Sorry. I had some stuff I needed to do.” I couldn’t tell him, I decided. If he asked, I wouldn’t lie, but it would be suicide to volunteer the information. He didn’t say anything. He went behind the shelves again and continued doing whatever I



had interrupted. I followed him. He slammed the books into their places on the shelf and walked past me to the other end of the shop, where he fussed with a display of tarot cards that didn’t look as though it needed rearranging. “So, are you going to talk to me or what?” I asked quietly as he fanned out an open deck as if they were a row of magazines on a coffee table. “I’m sorry. I’m being rude. How was your evening? Did you have a nice time with your sire while I rummaged through your burning apartment?” The sarcasm in his voice was like a slap in the face. My temper rose. “You went to that apartment all by yourself. I didn’t ask you to go. All you wanted was your precious book!” “This isn’t about the fucking book!” He slammed his fists on the table. A sealed deck of cards bounced onto the floor. “How long did you wait before you went snooping through my stuff to find his address? Did you give any thought to what you were going to do? No! After everything I told you, after what you lived through at his hands, you went after him unprotected. He could have killed you!” “But he didn’t. I can handle myself,” I said. “You don’t know what he’s like!” Nathan yelled as he put a display of candles in order. I hoped he broke every damned one of them. “And you do?” “Yes!” He turned to face me, a handful of orange candles still in his hand. “He’s capable of things you can’t imagine. Things you wouldn’t want to know.” “He’s a killer. It’s in our blood to be killers. It says so in your freaking vampire bible!” “Is it in our blood to torture? To maim? Is it in his blood to prey on the weak and exploit kids like Ziggy? Because I’ve got the same blood in my veins that he does, and I’ve never had the urge to rape and murder a sixteen-year-old girl!” I couldn’t believe my ears. Cyrus was definitely evil. In the short time I’d known him I’d heard him refer to humans as pets and seen him casually feast on a corpse as though it were a fine cut of beef. But I knew myself, and I would never have been so attracted to someone capable of such a heinous act. “He couldn’t have done that.” “Are you so sure? Because it was on the last order. I’ve got a newspaper clipping about her disappearance upstairs. He was awfully proud of her. Apparently, the fun for him is in killing the girls as he’s violating them. He likes to watch them die while he’s inside them.” Nathan’s description of the obscene act made my stomach churn. I covered my mouth with my hand. “I don’t want to hear any more.” “No, you want to experience it for yourself.” He exhaled noisily. “But you go ahead and do what you want.” “That’s not what I want.” “Hey, I really don’t care. Apparently, nothing I say is going to matter.” He went back to his candles. His calm fed my growing anger. “What’s that supposed to mean?” “It means no matter what I say, you’re going to do what you damn well please.” “Why shouldn’t I?” I shuffled the artfully arranged cards into a single pile on the tabletop. “The only words out of your mouth are ‘don’t do that, Carrie,’ and ‘it’s dangerous, Carrie’ and ‘I’ll kill you, Carrie,’ but you never tell me why!” “I dispense information on a need-to-know basis!”



“You sound like my goddamned father!” I shouted, stamping my foot. Nathan made an exasperated sound and threw his hands up in the air. “What the hell are you talking about?” “If I ask questions, you get all evasive. You don’t want to share anything about your life, but you seem to want me to just blindly trust that you know what’s best for me.” I pointed at him. “How do I know you’re not just as dangerous as Cyrus?” He stepped so close to me that our shoes touched. “Oh, believe me, I’m the most dangerous thing in this room right now.” “Oh, yeah?” “Yeah, and you’re about to see just how dangerous.” I tilted my head so I could look him in the eye. “Is that a threat?” “You tell me.” His breath was cold on my face. We glared at each other in silence, tension dancing between us like a ballerina with a broken leg. I don’t think I’d ever been more infuriated. He turned away, but neither of us had spent our anger. This was merely the eye of the storm. He faced me again, his arms folded across his chest. “Fine. Prove to me you can take care of yourself.” I hesitated. “What?” “Attack me.” “You’re not serious.” I laughed. “The hell I’m not!” He stepped back and braced himself for a fight. “I’m angry at you. You’re angry at me, right?” “Yeah, but I’m not about to indulge in mindless violence with a vampire.” “Would it be better if I was a human?” He rolled his eyes. “This will work out some of that aggression. And you can prove to me that you can stand up to Cyrus. It’s a win-win situation. Besides, right now, I’d really like to kick your ass.” “Kick my—” My mouth dropped open as I sputtered in resentment. “Oh, I’m going to put the hurt on you so bad!” I charged him with no specific plan of attack. My shoulder collided with his midsection. He tumbled backward, and I fell to the floor on top of him. We upended the table on the way down, tarot cards fluttering around us as we struggled. My flying hair and our flailing limbs obscured my vision. I swung at him blindly. Pain reverberated down my arm as my fist connected with his jaw. Nathan pinned one arm behind me and rolled me onto my back. The hard floorboards bit into my knuckles, and I arched my back to relieve the pressure. Unfortunately, this motion pushed my breasts against his chest, and it was more than a little arousing. I used my free hand to yank his hair, pulling as hard as I could. He grabbed my wrist, squeezing brutally, and I released my grip. He forced my arm above my head and held it to the floor. The anger between us dissipated, abandoning us with only the raw, primal sound of our heavy breathing. I stopped struggling the same time Nathan loosened his grip. Painfully aware of how close our bodies were, I looked into his eyes. He pressed his hips against mine. Apparently, I wasn’t the only one affected. “You suck at fighting,” he rasped. He leaned forward, his mouth a millimeter from mine. I



closed my eyes and tried to stop my body from trembling. His breath teased my lips, and I shivered. The bells above the shop door chimed. Nathan sprang to his feet, using a book from the nearest table as a shield to hide his obvious state of arousal. I rose clumsily beside him and hoped I didn’t look too flushed. The customer who entered was about fifty years old and had long, graying hair. She looked us over with knowing brown eyes. “I’ve come at a bad time. I’ll be back later.” She gave the overturned table and scattered merchandise a pointed glance before turning toward the door. “No, no.” Nathan reached down to right the table. “What can I help you with tonight, Deb?” The woman looked from him to me with an expression of uncertainty. I coughed and smiled, trying—quite unsuccessfully—to hide the guilt written all over my face. At Nathan’s urging, the customer rattled off a long list of ingredients she needed to make a protection charm. He directed her to the herb pantry at the back of the shop and promised he’d be with her in a moment. “Deb is a regular,” he explained, almost apologetically. “You might as well go upstairs.” “Not to my apartment?” I asked hopefully. He stared at the ground. “Yeah, I was meaning to tell you about that.” “It’s completely gone.” I could tell by the look on his face. He couldn’t meet my eyes. “I’m sorry, Carrie.” I went to Nathan’s apartment, my head still spinning. What had I been thinking? I’d met this man just over a week ago, and now I was rolling around on the floor with him. And after his tall, dark and surly act. Had I really become the wilting Southern-belle type, just waiting for a big, brooding Rhett Butler to come and dominate me? I wandered around, absentmindedly picking up clothes strewn around the living room. Once the dirty laundry was folded, I moved on to the coffee table. I straightened the hopeless pile of books and papers. Not too thoroughly, lest I be accused of snooping again. Thinking of everything he’d said downstairs only made my blood boil, so I gathered stray dishes and dropped them unceremoniously into a sink full of soapy water. I meant to wash them, until the coffee mugs turned the water a soft pink and I lost my stomach for the task. My manic cleaning spree continued through the house. In the past nine days, I had become homeless, hunted and, soon, unemployed. I probably had enough money in my bank account for a few months’ rent and utilities, but the point seemed moot since I didn’t have an apartment anymore. Did the Voluntary Vampire Extinction Movement pay a salary? Nathan had offered blood, shelter and protection. The least I could do was tidy up the place. Because he’s not getting anything else. My behavior downstairs might have raised some of his expectations. I’d have to nip that situation in the bud. Moving to his bedroom, I stripped the sheets from the bed and threw them into the corner that appeared to be his dirty-laundry hamper. Vampire or not, it appeared men just couldn’t clean up after themselves. A pang of sadness washed over me as I realized I no longer had a home to clean. Or clothes. Or major appliances.



How had my life suddenly become so complicated? How would I survive as a vampire? How long has it been since he’s flipped his mattress? I eyed the goldfish bowl on Nathan’s bedside table as I wrestled the heavy mattress off the box springs. I’d read somewhere that goldfish had a memory span of three seconds. Every three seconds, that poor fish had to come to grips with a new and frightening reality. I could definitely identify with that. I lifted the bowl, pressed my face against the cool glass and counted to three. “Surprise.” I sighed as I set the container back in its place. It didn’t seem to phase the little orange guy. He just kept on swimming. Another three seconds passed as I wrestled the mattress over and back onto the box springs. Panting and sweating, I looked to the fishbowl. No reaction. Fish were survivors. I opened the closet doors to look for clean sheets, on the off chance he owned some. There were assorted bare hangers and a few shirts that hadn’t been worn in so long that the shoulders were dusty. Three mismatched tennis shoes huddled together in the corner next to a dried-out, curled-up object that resembled a dead mouse. I found a set of sheets on the top shelf and pulled them down. Something heavy and sharp came down with them and landed on my foot. I said a few choice words and leaned over to pick up the offending object. It was a small picture frame, weighty for its size. The picture was yellow and faded. A pretty young woman beamed at me from the photograph. She wore a simple white blouse and a long tartan skirt. She clutched a bouquet of wild flowers tightly to her chest. A young man in a plain-looking suit stood next to her. The couple posed on the stone steps of a small country church. I squinted at the man. He bore a remarkable resemblance to… I flipped the frame over and carefully removed the photograph. There were no names, but someone had recorded the date. June 23, 1924. I stared at the picture. Nathan, just twenty years old, stared back. “Carrie? Sorry I took so long, but you wouldn’t believe how that woman can talk about her cats.” I put the photograph back into the frame, replaced it on the top shelf and slammed the closet doors shut. “Wow, this place looks great,” Nathan called from the living room, veritable appreciation in his voice. He came into the bedroom and laughed when he saw me. “You’re making the bed, too? Do I have to pay you?” “And I flipped the mattress. That’ll be twenty bucks.” I eyed the shopping bags he held. “Or whatever’s in that Victoria’s Secret bag.” He laughed, a tight, embarrassed sound, and dumped the bags on the bed. “I didn’t know what size you are, so if these don’t fit, we’ll return them.” Nathan had thought of everything. There were sweaters and T-shirts in safe, neutral colors from Old Navy, jeans, and pretty silk panties courtesy of Victoria’s Secret. “I saved some of your clothes from the fire, but they were so full of smoke, I didn’t think they’d ever come clean.” A lump formed in my throat. “Nathan, you didn’t have to do this. I—” I didn’t realize I was crying until my voice grew too thick to speak.


