Faced with a man’s tears, I reacted much in the way a male would to a woman crying. I stood silently and watched his misery, feeling helpless in the awkwardness of the moment. Then I realized I had to do something, so I knelt on the floor of the tiny kitchen and put my arms around him. “Nathan, you’re nothing like them.” I thought he’d push me away, but he returned my embrace, clinging to me like a drowning man to a piece of driftwood. “You don’t know me, Carrie. You don’t know what I’ve done.” I wondered how long it had been since he’d let himself cry or talk to anyone or, God, even feel. Unable to think of any better way to comfort him, I held him while his cold tears wet the front of my shirt and his back shook with unrestrained sobs. A long time later, when he’d composed himself, we salvaged the dishes that had survived his wrath. As if nothing had happened, we set about making breakfast side by side in the tiny kitchen. Because there was nothing else to talk about, I asked about Ziggy. At first, Nathan resisted, giving short, perfunctory answers. I’m not sure if it was talking through the tragedy that soothed him, or making breakfast, but he soon fell into an easy pattern of storytelling. “Ziggy was a runaway. He left home when he was nine. Can you believe that?” I shook my head sympathetically and let him continue. “His mom was on drugs, his dad was in jail. His stepdad beat him so badly that he had two broken ribs when I found him. Every few months, I’d do the rounds at the Goth clubs. I’d look for wannabes and vampire hunters, and kids who got into the role-playing and took it too seriously. Usually, I’d give them a good scare and send them home.” He motioned for me to flip the bacon I’d arranged in a frying pan, and leaned to turn down the heat. “Ziggy had fallen in with some pretty stupid kids. They were in their early teens, but they let him hang around. They called themselves vampire hunters, but I’m glad I got to them before they could get in any actual trouble. These kids had no idea how to fight. They all ran from me. Except Ziggy. We stood in that alley for two hours, staring each other down. I even did the whole—” He waved his hands in front of his face. “He just kept insisting he was going to kill me and rid the world of, I think the term he used was ‘hell spawn.’” I imagined a nine-year-old Ziggy staring down a killer vampire, and it brought a smile to my face. “What did you do?” “I would have washed his mouth out with soap, if I’d known he’d had a gift for that kind of language. I took him to Denny’s to get some pie.” He smiled at the memory. “He hadn’t eaten in days. He was so skinny, you could have turned on a flashlight on one side of him and it would have shone through to the other. I asked if he had a place to stay, and he tried to play it off like he had all sorts of options. I told him he could stay with me, and he’s lived here ever since.” He paused, clearly noticing he’d used the present tense. But he didn’t correct himself. “You know, I feel like any second now he could walk through that door.” Before he could get too emotional again, he reached for a whisk and set to mixing the pancake batter. “He was only my donor for about a year. I don’t want you to think I was taking advantage of him.” “I didn’t.” “And I don’t want you to think I didn’t love him because of what happened before he left.



I followed him. I looked all over town for him until the sun came up and I had to come back here. I had a hell of a burn.” “I’ll bet.” Without saying anything further, I got two plates and laid out some silverware. I wasn’t sure pancakes would hit the spot in the absence of blood, but cooking seemed to be therapeutic for Nathan. By the time we finished, we had pancakes, eggs Benedict, sausage and bacon. He had just gone rummaging through the cupboard, muttering under his breath about muffin mix, when I stopped him. “I’m sure this will be enough. I mean, I don’t know if vampires can gain weight, but I really don’t want to take a chance.” He laughed softly. “I’m sorry. I’m used to cooking for a teenage boy. It’ll take me a while to get used to this.” Not sure how he’d react, but needing the contact to reassure me, I laid my hand over his as he reached for a plate of bacon. “Nathan, you don’t have to put on an act about this. Not with me.” “Hey, forget about it. But I’m glad to know you’re there if I need you.” When he smiled, I recognized the Nathan I knew. The calm surface stretched over a terrifying riptide of emotions. It was a depth he probably didn’t visit, for fear of drowning in his past. By the time eleven-thirty rolled around and we headed downstairs for the meeting, we’d sunk into an easy pattern of speaking without saying anything. The shop looked much better than I’d expected. Last time I’d seen it, it had been full of burnt, smoke-damaged merchandise. Now it was a totally different store. New shelves were empty and draped with plastic. Sawdust covered the floor and made the air hazy, making it seem as if workmen had just left. “It looks good,” I said, touching the freshly painted trim. I wiped my hands surreptitiously on my jeans and hoped he hadn’t noticed. Nathan inspected the new countertop and ran his fingers over it. “The firemen said it was faulty wiring and I wasn’t going to tell him that a crazy witch was actually responsible for the fire. Insurance covered the remodel. It’ll be a shame to leave. This place looks better than it did when I first bought it. Maybe I should send Dahlia a thank-you card.” A lump rose in my throat at the thought of him leaving. He was the only friend I had in the city. “You’re leaving?” Nathan nodded. “I’ve been here fifteen years, Carrie. My customers are starting to comment on how well I’ve aged. It’s one of the first signs that I need to go. That, and someone called offering to teach power yoga in the back room. Power yoga. I don’t think I have the strength to put in another decade here.” “Where will you go?” I asked, willing myself to sound casual. “Back to Scotland?” “No, not there. I haven’t given it much thought.” He quirked an eyebrow. “Why? Are you going to miss me?” “Ha, ha.” I tried to change the subject. “What do we have to do to set up this meeting? Do we need coffee and doughnuts?” He smiled, a little wickedly, in my opinion. “How’s your arm?” I lifted it uncertainly. It was sore, but practically healed. “It’s okay. Why?” “We need chairs.” He opened the storage room door and slid out a cart of folding chairs. “Get unfolding.”



“Yes, sir,” I said with a mock salute. “So, are they going to go ballistic when they realize I’m not a part of the club?” “Maybe.” He dropped a chair into place. “If anyone gives you a hard time, send them to me.” “Ooh, big man.” “You have no idea.” The devilish grin that formed on his face eased some of the anxiety I felt. The comment, however, renewed the spark of another kind of tension I’d almost forgotten existed between us. I nearly dropped the chair I held. The bells above the door jingled. They’d melted in the fire, so rather than merrily announcing the entrance of a customer, they sounded like the arrival of a satanic ice-cream truck. Two men entered. Though they were dressed in casual clothes, they projected an aura of menace. Nathan was unperturbed as he hurried to greet them. “Alex, Gary! Get rested up?” They didn’t respond. They were too busy staring at me. I wondered if maybe I had said something under my breath. Alex spoke first. He was tall and dark-skinned, with a shaved head. “What’s she doing here?” Unfazed by the man’s gruff demeanor, Nathan motioned me forward. “This is Dr. Carrie Ames.” “Hi.” I extended my hand, hoping it didn’t shake. Alex didn’t take it. But Gary shook my hand readily. “Pleased to meet you.” He had dark hair, olive skin and a Texan drawl. And he didn’t appear to hate me outright, which scored big points in my book. “Is she one of us?” Alex asked as he eyed me suspiciously. Nathan smiled, a clearly antagonistic gesture. “Yeah, she’s one of us. Not Movement, though.” Gary raised his hands as if surrendering as he stepped away from his friend. Alex inclined his head toward me. “Any reason for that?” Before I could answer, Nathan stepped in front of me, and in doing so, was almost nose to nose with the other vampire. “She’s not sure about it yet.” “Not sure if she wants to be good or evil? That doesn’t sound like a tough choice to me,” Alex said, his voice liquid hate. Nathan tried to remain calm. “She hasn’t broken a single rule since she turned.” “Yeah, but you know the rules, man.” Gary sounded nervous, as if they might all be struck down for consorting with a renegade vampire any second. “And we all know how well you follow the rules.” Alex stared right at him. The tone of his voice implied an intense dislike for Nathan. Gosh, if this guy thought Nathan was soft on the rules, I’d hate to think how he lived his life. I saw the muscles of Nathan’s back bunch beneath his shirt. More vampires would be arriving soon. I sent up a silent prayer Nathan wouldn’t flip out and start throwing punches. I cleared my throat and tried to sound authoritative. “This isn’t about Nathan. It’s about me. I’m all for law and order and keeping the peace, but I don’t know where you



Movement guys get off with your ‘join us or die’ rhetoric. I don’t do anything unless I’m asked nicely.” I stole a glance at Nathan and saw quiet pride on his face. “I think you better ask her nicely,” Gary said with a laugh. Alex sneered at me. “Pretty please, with a cherry on top, would you join the fucking Movement?” “I’ll think about it.” With a muttered curse, Alex walked to the cluster of chairs and dropped down heavily. I secretly hoped there would be a weakness somewhere in the chair’s frame so that it would topple from under him. Alas, it didn’t. Gary regarded me with wide eyes and went to join his friend. Nathan leaned close as he walked past me and whispered, “Think you can do that about fifteen more times?” He wasn’t kidding. Exactly fifteen more vampires showed up, offering fifteen lukewarm receptions. But most of them just ignored me as they socialized with one another. The situation harkened back to my high school days, when my friends would rope me into going to college parties and promptly disappear with their new frat-boy love interests. I’d just be standing there, holding a red plastic cup of two dollar beer, trying not to catch anyone’s attention. The variety of vampires surprised me. I like to think of myself as a forward-thinking woman with feminist leanings, but I was truly surprised when almost half the team turned out to be female. Some of the women looked like stereotypical vampire seductresses, with dark clothes and heavy makeup, but most of them were very normal looking. One of them even wore a pink cashmere twinset with pearls. She looked more suited to be an attendee at a meeting of the Young Republicans than a gathering of ruthless assassins. The males in the group were just as diverse, some so young they appeared to be teenagers and one was old enough to have been my father. The older man shook hands enthusiastically with me, explaining he’d been a doctor as well. “Well, a doctor of psychology,” he’d said, in the early 1920s. “We’ll have a lot to talk about,” he’d promised, and when he’d patted my hand, I couldn’t help but think he might be coming on to me. When the meeting came to order, only one person voiced concern at my attending, and that was Alex. He was overruled by the tall, slender female who seemed to be in charge. The tall, slender female Nathan couldn’t keep his eyes off of. “I asked her to let you stay, as a personal favor,” Nathan whispered, never tearing his rapt gaze from her willowy body. “Try to keep your tongue in your mouth,” I snapped quietly. Ms. Gorgeous paced back and forth in front of us, and I tried hard not to hate her. She had legs that seemed to go to her neck, and a fashion sense I could never hope to cultivate. With a sad smile, she began to speak. “Thanks for coming tonight, guys. I know a lot of you have planes and buses to catch, so I’ll keep this as brief as possible. As you know, we lost two members in our fight with the Soul Eater.” I looked around at all the grave faces. The speaker continued. “And Nathan Grant lost someone very special.” She smiled tenderly at him, and I realized I was glaring at her. Behind me I heard quiet chuckling, and I turned to see a blond man with a friendly—not to mention adorable—face



wink at me. I doubted it was Nathan’s tragedy the man found amusing. Nathan had heard the laughing as well. “Max, do you have something to share?” Max sobered instantly. “No, man. We’re cool. Sorry about the kid.” With a grumpy nod, Nathan turned in his seat. “If we can all get back to the meeting,” the alpha female said, frowning so sternly at Max I almost reminded her that Nathan had been talking, too. God, petty jealousy was turning me into a deranged tattletale. I wondered if it was a trait I’d inherited from Cyrus, or one that I’d had all along but never had a chance to use. “While our raid on Cyrus’s mansion was successful in that we eliminated a fair number of vampires, some of you were a bit kill-happy. Three Lupins and a half-demon were mistakenly killed. I don’t think any of us wishes to increase the tension between the Movement and the Lupin council.” She waited as if to let her remark sink in. “And we didn’t achieve either of our goals.” “What does that mean?” I whispered to Nathan. “It means we didn’t kill Cyrus. Or the Soul Eater.” The blond vampire behind me leaned forward, his cold breath tickling my neck. “But some of us got damned close.” Nathan twisted around in his chair. “Cyrus is her sire. You really know how to put your foot in it, don’t you?” I almost snapped that I didn’t care, that jerk could say anything he wanted. It certainly would have earned me some points with this crowd. But beneath my current tangle of confused emotions was a lingering ache from being separated from my sire. The pain I’d felt through the blood tie would be nothing compared to the emptiness I’d feel if he actually were killed. I finally knew what my mother meant when she’d said, just because you love a person doesn’t mean you have to like them. Miss Thin Dark and Annoying stopped directly in front of us. Nathan was certainly appreciative of the view. “Since our first mission failed and the council still wishes to see Cyrus exterminated, we’ve been ordered back in.” Angry shouts and groans of disbelief erupted around the room. Some people grumbled about nonrefundable plane tickets and jobs they needed to get back to. Max actually stood up, like a character in a town meeting from an old movie. “Now that Cyrus knows we’re in town, he’s going to hightail it out of here. Not to mention the fact the Soul Eater is going to up his guards.” I couldn’t tell if the outraged voices agreed with him or not. The leader waved her hands to silence everyone. “Cyrus isn’t going anywhere. The Movement has pulled passenger lists for upcoming domestic and international flights. None of his known aliases are traveling, passenger or cargo. As for the Soul Eater, he successfully shipped himself to…” She pulled out a Palm Pilot and punched a few keys. “Washington, D.C. The council wants one volunteer to follow him—” “Yo,” Max said as he raised his hand. She narrowed her eyes and keyed something in. “Fine. We also need a small group to infiltrate Cyrus’s mansion and assassinate him.” Nathan tore his gaze away from the woman, finally, and turned to me. His eyes were so



intense I thought he’d shoot lasers from them as he stared at me. I knew he was making a decision from the way he furrowed his brows. A decision that obviously concerned me. Not that he would consult me on it. “I’ll go.” The woman smiled. “Thank you, Nathan.” “Then I’m going, too!” I claimed as I raised my hand, despite Nathan’s persistent attempts to block it. We ended up looking like we’d engaged in a very sissy slap fight. “Absolutely not!” He didn’t bother to lower his voice. “He’s your sire. You’re too much of a liability.” Anger burned hot on my face. I’d had just about enough of people telling me what I could and couldn’t do. I wasn’t going to let Nathan face Cyrus alone, partly because I feared for his safety and partly because I needed to see Cyrus die with my own eyes. “Pardon me, but I do believe she said volunteer. I’m volunteering, and I don’t think it’s any of your business!” The speaker cleared her delicate throat. “It doesn’t matter. She’s not Movement, so she’s not eligible to take the assignment.” “Excuse me, I’m right here,” I nearly growled at her. “Ladies, ladies. Let’s not have a catfight,” Max urged, standing again. “Unless there’s going to be torn clothing involved. If Cyrus is her sire, I say she’s got the right to take him out herself.” “How do we know she won’t fall to the blood tie and stab us in the back?” That bitch was becoming more irritating with every second. “Hello!” I shrieked, rising to my feet. “I’m still right here. How do you manage to keep from going all feral and tearing people up? I haven’t done it yet, and I’m pretty sure I can avoid doing it in the near future!” “I don’t want you going in there again!” Nathan shouted, grabbing me by the arm and tugging me back into my seat. I wrenched out of his grasp. “You don’t have the authority to boss me around, so drop the dad act!” His face went ashen. “Oh, God, Nathan, I’m—” “You know what? Go ahead and come along. If you get killed, it’s your fault, not mine. I don’t give a damn anymore.” He stood and stalked off, slamming the door behind him. “Forget that D.C. thing. I want to go with them,” Max said, waving his hand furiously in the air. The woman scowled at both of us and ran after Nathan. Max shrugged and addressed the group. “I guess that means meeting adjourned.” Tears stung my eyelids as the discordant bells above the door chimed. I don’t know what bothered me more, that I’d hurt Nathan’s feelings or that she was out there comforting him. “Hey, don’t worry about it, he’s not really interested in her.” Max’s voice was so close to my ear, I jumped. I turned to see he’d slid into the vacant seat beside me. “I don’t care.” Max’s smile was boyish and held just a hint of naughtiness, as though my obvious attraction to Nathan didn’t remove me from his prospective bedding pool. “I know you



don’t. I just feel like talking about it. If you don’t care, it shouldn’t bother you.” I couldn’t help my smile. “Fine.” “Rachel’s a good girl. But Nathan’s not her type, if you catch my drift.” I didn’t, so I just stared at him blankly. Max frowned. “Okay, let me put it this way. If Nathan were to actively pursue her, he’d have to get a major operation. In Switzerland.” “Now I get it.” “Good, I could tell you were a smart one. I’m Max Harrison.” His handshake was firm, as if he’d been practicing for a job interview. I was surprised when he slipped his hand out of mine and tried to bump fists with me. I laughed. “I’m sorry, I’m not that hip.” “Don’t sweat it.” He covered his soft laugh with a cough. “Rachel just looks out for her kids. They’re the vamps she took under her wing when they were new to the Movement.” “You’re not one of her kids?” I raised an eyebrow. He sniffed and leaned back in his seat. “No. But enough about me. I want to know about the cutie in the Goth ballerina costume.” I blushed from the roots of my hair to the tips of my toes. “You saw me?” “It was kinda hard to miss you.” There was nothing boyish about his expression now. He was almost predatory, the way he looked me up and down. The bells above the door jingled again, and I was grateful for the excuse to change the subject. “Sounds like they’re back.” Nathan and Rachel entered the shop. I could tell he was still upset, but he managed to put on an amicable face. Rachel pasted on a fake smile and walked toward me with Nathan. “Well, Doctor, I’ve heard a lot about you,” she said, leaning casually against the counter. “Do you think you can live up to the hype?” I smiled back sweetly, but narrowed my eyes at her challenge. “I’m sure I can, and then some.” “I hope so.” She turned to Nathan. “I need to speak to you. Alone.” The last word was added like a bullet aimed at both Max and me. I folded my arms, some evil little urge to antagonize her compelling me to stay. Max threw his arm around my shoulder. “Fine. We know when we’re not wanted. Well, Miss—” “Doctor,” Nathan snapped. I put on my best flirty smile, making sure he saw and understood why I’d done it before I turned to Max. “Call me Carrie.” He gave me a nod, as if to say “good play.” “Well, Miss Doctor-Call-Me-Carrie, I have a fantastic room over at the Hampton Inn on Twenty-eighth Street, complete with a minibar. What do you say we get slightly buzzed on very small bottles of schnapps and paint Mallsville red?” Despite his ridiculous come-on, it was hard not to like Max. I laughed and shook my head. “Actually, I’m kind of tired, after last night. I think I’ll go upstairs to bed.” I said a brief, polite goodbye to Rachel and Max and headed up the stairs. The night air was cool, but the day must have been warm. The snow had nearly melted. For once in the last few hectic days, I didn’t feel as if I had to rush anywhere, or dread anything. In fact, I was actually looking forward to tying up the bathroom with a nice long



bubble bath. When I got to the door, I realized I didn’t have any keys to get into the apartment. That’s when the hair stood up on my neck, and I desperately wanted to get inside. I didn’t know what had spooked me, but every instinct in my body screamed run. I wasn’t going to argue. I’d nearly gained the top of the stairs when something caught my hair and tugged me backward. I opened my mouth to scream, and a hand stifled the sound. A cold, clawed hand. A startlingly familiar hand. My sire’s hand.

Twenty Transfusion
H e wrenched my head back, hard. “What a nest of vipers you’ve fallen into.” I shuddered. “All I have to do is scream, and—” “But you won’t.” His fingers slid across my shoulders, dipping into the neck of my shirt. “Because you don’t want to fight me.” “You’re right. I don’t want to fight you.” I clenched my teeth. “I want them to come up here and tear you to pieces.” The unmistakable chill of metal pressed against my throat. “I don’t think I’m the one who’s going to go to pieces here.” He drew the blade across my neck, and though I barely felt the sting of the cut, a warm cascade of blood wet the front of my shirt. Blood gurgled from my mouth. “That should take care of your annoying talking problem.” I heard the door open at the bottom of the stairs, but my vision swam. I couldn’t see who it was. When I heard her call a farewell over her shoulder, I recognized Rachel’s voice. If I could have called out, I would have. But Cyrus quickly backed into the narrow alley beside the building, dragging me with him. “Imagine that. They’re all leaving.” He lowered his head and lapped at the blood flowing from my neck. “And you don’t have much time.” He raised the knife again, and I was too weak to dodge it. The blade split my sternum, and for a terrifying moment I thought he’d struck my heart. “I wouldn’t do that to you, Carrie,” he whispered against my ear as he sawed the blade upward. “If I punctured your heart, you’d be nothing but a pile of dust. No fun for Nathan to find you that way.” As he wedged his fingers between my separated rib cage, his memories flashed through my mind. The Soul Eater’s sadistic face filled my vision. “Hold still, boy. Your brother didn’t carry on so!” My bones and cartilage cracked as Cyrus yanked my chest open. When I screamed in agony, I gagged on my blood. The pictures in my head scrambled and jumped. I saw the face of the dead woman I’d seen before, the same one I’d seen beside Cyrus at the dinner party. She laughed and trailed her finger down the scar on Cyrus’s chest. “And why would I let him do that?” she asked. Her mocking wounded him. “So we can be together forever.”



My vision cleared, and I saw Cyrus looming above me, his hands and clothes drenched in my blood. “And you’ll be with me forever.” Those evil bells jingled again. I had no idea how long I’d been lying there. I couldn’t see Cyrus, but I heard his voice from somewhere in the alley. “If you live through the night.” The blood on my shirt wasn’t warm anymore. It was nearly frozen to my skin. In the gap between the buildings, I saw no stars in the cold, clear sky. Dawn would come soon. I closed my eyes, unable to worry or care what would happen to me when the rising sun touched my flesh. It seemed simpler than being rescued. If someone found me, how would they fix me? I’d been damaged beyond repair, gutted like a fish. I thought about what Nathan would think when he went upstairs and found the apartment empty. Maybe he’d think that I’d turned my back on his friendship again. Or that I’d been so angry with him that I’d returned to the man who’d killed his son. Would he spend the rest of his life hating me? Something soft and cool brushed my ear, a breeze in the windless night. I opened my eyes. All around me, the alley grew dim. Colors bled together into shapeless blobs that darkened with the rapid deceleration of my heart. The pain in my chest ebbed into a warm, focused feeling that lifted my whole body from any sensation. Then the space that separated the shapeless blobs got smaller and smaller as the darkness became absolute. In the distance, I saw a point of light. It swelled and spiraled toward me. In medical school, we’d been taught the Kubler-Ross theories of death. A glimmering tunnel, all your relatives and the deity of your choice waiting to welcome you. When I’d gone on to my internship, I’d heard the nurses talk about “The Man at the End of My Bed,” a vision they claimed patients always reported on the night of their death. Both versions of dying had been terrifying and alien to me, looming in the future like a standardized test or a root canal, something unpleasant you couldn’t avoid. What I was experiencing now was peaceful and gradual, my senses dropping away one by one as the intense light widened in my fading vision. Instead of seeing heaven, I saw the alley and the street beyond. At my feet, I saw my lifeless body, torso splayed open like a macabre storybook. I wished I could see the world around me all my life as it appeared now, painted in the washed-out tones of a watercolor. Suddenly, where the sidewalks had been empty before, pale shadow forms drifted aimlessly in an eerie ballet. A big orange tabby cat jogged down the alley, pausing to sniff my body. The animal’s vitality and life took my breath away. The shadows spotted it at once and reached their long fingers out to touch it before it hissed and ran back where it had come from. I wanted to follow it. I needed to touch the cat and feel the life there. But something held me down like an anchor. A pull at my spectral chest reminded me that my body still had breath and life. I wanted to just die already. So this is what it’s like to become a ghost. I heard Nathan’s voice. When he passed the alley, he stopped, sniffed the air. He howled in fury. He dropped to his knees beside my body, arms spread as if he didn’t know what to do first. Sadly—though not too sadly, because everything I felt seemed to come through a



filter—I realized he wanted to save me. I wanted to tell him not to bother. It was too much work, and I was just too tired. The shadows shimmered and pulsed, but they didn’t swarm Nathan the way they had the cat. I didn’t blame them. There was no life in him, no color. Just pale shades of sadness, and we already had those. Nathan lifted my head in his hands and kissed my dead lips. A tear splashed against my cold skin. It couldn’t have been mine. The tenderness there made me feel something. Regret? My new companions beckoned, and I reached out to them. Not with my hands. I had no hands. Neither did they. But they surrounded me, and their embrace was warm and comforting. Nathan raised his wrist to his mouth and bit down. Dark blood dripped into my slack mouth. The ghost people wavered and dimmed. No! I tried to fight, but piece by piece I came alive again. First I heard sounds more clearly. Then I felt a little pain, and the sensation of hot, sticky blood pooling in the back of my mouth. I swallowed, and the pain grew, until all I felt was agony and hunger. I closed my lips over his wrist. When I drew more blood into my mouth, a tremor went through him. “You’re going to be okay,” he rasped. He held my broken body in his arms. “I saw them,” I whispered. I drifted away again, but this time there were no lost souls to welcome me. I was stranded in the darkness.

