


After another two weeks, I wondered if Cyrus would ever bother me again. At first, it had been easy to assume he bided his time, waiting for an opportunity to strike. But I knew he wasn’t patient enough to wait a full month. The nights grew gradually shorter as spring approached. Renovations on the bookstore were nearly completed, and I found myself working with Nathan, cataloguing inventory in preparation for the upcoming grand reopening. Still, reading ISBN numbers hardly kept my mind off the nagging feeling that any moment, Cyrus would come back for me. It didn’t help that, for the fourth day in a row, I woke to find Nathan beside me in the tiny twin bed. I knew he wasn’t asleep. “Nathan, what’s going on?” He leaned up behind me, propping his chin on my arm. “Max will be here tomorrow. We postponed the mission when I told him what happened to you, but the Movement is getting impatient.” “We’ve still got to kill Cyrus?” The calm feeling that had just begun to take root in me vanished. I rolled over to face Nathan, careful not to push him off the bed. His expression confirmed my fear before his words did. “We better get it out of the way now. Before Max goes after the Soul Eater.” “Okay.” I tried to smile and appear unconcerned. “What’s the plan?” I shouldn’t have bothered with the facade. He didn’t. “Don’t get killed.” “How do we do that?” My voice wavered as a balloon of fear swelled in my chest. He didn’t answer right away. He toyed with one strap of the tank top I’d worn to bed, sliding it off my shoulder and back again. In the semidarkness of the room, he looked tired and defeated. “I don’t know.” He was certain he’d lose me. His terror surrounded me in waves, terror that he’d feel the same pain over me that he’d felt over Ziggy. Over Marianne. But Nathan would never admit he felt anything toward me but the obligation any sire feels toward their fledgling. It was a good thing, too. I wasn’t sure I was ready to accept more from him. I rolled over and let him pull me into the curve of his body. He locked his arms around me as if I would try to escape, but relaxed some when I laid my hand over his. I wasn’t ready to accept anything more than friendship from him because I wasn’t ready to admit the depth of my feelings for him, either. As long as we both ignored our feelings, we could live, awkwardly but happily, in our dysfunction. The workmen were just finishing up when we got downstairs that night. While Nathan engaged them in a fascinating conversation about wall studs, I went to the mailbox. I dropped the assorted bills and catalogs on the counter, more concerned with the large padded envelope that had been stuffed in with them. It was addressed to Dr. C. Ames. I waited until the workmen left before I presented the envelope to Nathan. “I’m not opening this. It looks like ‘discreet packaging,’ if you know what I mean.” “Very funny,” Nathan said, snatching it from me. He ripped the brown paper open and caught the object that fell out. “This is yours. It’s nothing dirty. I hope you aren’t too disappointed.” It was another copy of The Sanguinarius. This copy was a little more beaten up than the previous one. Nathan frowned and headed to the storeroom. “Near mint my ass! Bluebird45 is getting



some seriously bad feedback.” “You bought this on eBay?” I flipped to a random page and started reading. “Man, you really can get anything on there.” The shop door swung open, and the bells, which Nathan had yet to replace, announced Max’s shrill entrance. Max was as young, confident and good-looking as I remembered. But I’d learned from Nathan that Max had a reputation as a merciless assassin. Judging from all the purple hickeys above the collar of his T-shirt, he was a merciless ladies’ man, as well. “I love this town, I love this town!” He jumped and grabbed the lintel of the doorway to swing inside. “Have a good flight?” Nathan didn’t look up from the stack of mail he browsed through. “You better believe it!” Max grinned from ear to ear. “Listen, am I now in the seven-milehigh club, or does this just mark my seventh membership card?” “Excuse me, lady present!” I turned back to the book. Max sidled up behind me to read over my shoulder. “Whatcha doin’?” “Not you,” Nathan snapped. I ignored him. “Reading The Sanguinarius.” I turned a page and was greeted by a particularly gruesome diagram of the vampire stomach. “There is no way my insides look like that. I won’t stand for it.” Max laughed. “It’s amazing how many vampires are all caught up in that worthless book. Stake plus heart equals dead vampire. That’s all you need to know.” “Actually, it depends on which heart you hit,” Nathan said quietly. “There are two. Or should be.” A foreboding chill crept up my back. I studied Nathan’s face. He looked away. I frantically flipped through the book until I found a diagram of the vampire heart. I scanned the text on the opposite page. The main weakness in vampyre physiology is the first of the two hearts, the original human organ. Rendered obsolete by the emergence of the seven-chambered vampyre heart, it now serves as the most efficient way to dispose of the creature. Max, apparently oblivious to my sudden frenzied state, began to hum, and something about the tune grated on my nerves. It was disturbingly familiar. To pierce the human heart with any implement is to render the vampyre instantly deceased by incineration. “Nathan, why didn’t you tell me?” Tears slid down my face as the physical emptiness in my chest made itself known. Or it could have been my imagination. “I didn’t want to frighten you.” “What?” I hadn’t intended to sound so shrill and loud. I lowered my voice. “How dare you! This is my life. You should have told me!” Max wandered away from the conversation, feigning great interest in the tape on the bare drywall on the opposite side of the room. Nathan leaned in close. “How was I supposed to tell you something like that? For the past four days, I’ve stayed up while you slept, watching for any sign you were going to—” He looked away. “My blood runs in your veins. I know every part of you. If I didn’t tell you what he’d done, I thought maybe…maybe nothing would ever come of it and I could forget.”



Now I understood his desperate fear, and his certainty he couldn’t protect me. But he had no right to keep me in the dark about my own mortality. On the other side of the store, Max still hummed. The tune brought tears to my eyes. I Left My Heart in San Francisco. The heart that remained pounded in my chest as I ran to the door. “Carrie, wait!” Nathan called after me. I sprinted up the stairs to the sidewalk. The nights had grown somewhat warmer, and the rain that splashed the pavement didn’t freeze. For whatever reason, Nathan didn’t follow me. While I hadn’t wanted company, I certainly didn’t want to think he’d just thrown up his hands and said, “Oh, well.” Not when Cyrus could kill me at any second. I walked past the alley. Though my blood had long since washed away, I imagined I could smell it. My old, tainted blood, my former sire’s blood. It had been on his hands, his face, his clothes when he’d leaned over me that night. The memory of the Soul Eater tearing through Cyrus’s chest was suddenly so much clearer. Cyrus had told me the Soul Eater had killed his own sire. So he must have removed Cyrus’s heart as an insurance policy. No one would betray someone who could kill them via remote. Cyrus had taken my heart to ensure I wouldn’t betray him. Did he think I would return to him? As I walked, I periodically checked my skin to make sure it wasn’t flaking away to ash and embers. Although he was no longer my sire, I knew Cyrus well enough to realize this was yet another installment of his torture. He could destroy my heart whenever he felt like it, and I’d never see death coming. All I could think of were Cyrus’s memories of his father holding him down, cutting him open. His scar had faded but it mirrored my own. Did his father still control him with possession of his heart? I walked around all night. Occasionally, I’d question The Sanguinarius. Why did we grow second hearts? Eventually, I settled on the most likely explanation, that the vampire heart was needed to push larger quantities of blood to our abnormally strong limbs. The old heart was rendered obsolete, yet somehow maintained a vital connection to our life force, even if it wasn’t connected to us physically. Ancient peoples believed the heart to be the seat of a person’s soul. Maybe they were on to something. The fact I could be removed from this plane of existence if my human heart is destroyed appeared to prove their hypothesis. I promised myself I’d research it, if I lived long enough. Several times I found myself nearing Cyrus’s neighborhood and turned back. When the sun began to rise, I headed back to the apartment. My legs had grown tired hours before, but my anger propelled me to stay away. Nathan hadn’t come to look for me. Ziggy’s van still rusted beside the curb, and I saw light in the living room windows. Max sat on the couch, flipping through television channels with a bored look on his face. He held up a hand in a halfhearted wave to greet me. There was no sign of Nathan. “Where is he?” Max pointed down the hall. “He’s been in there since you left. At least he stopped playing Dark Side of the Moon. I was about to go in there and fling the damn CD player out the



window.” I stomped toward Nathan’s bedroom, but Max’s next statement stopped me. “We’re going in tomorrow night. Nathan didn’t want me to tell you, but I thought you should know, seeing as it’s your sire and everything we’re going to off.” So Nathan hadn’t told Max what had transpired the night of the meeting. He must have had his reasons. Maybe Max was as fanatical about the Movement as Nathan had been. “Why didn’t he want me to know?” “Probably because he’s crazy about you and doesn’t want you to get hurt.” Max shrugged. “Or maybe he just thinks you’re going to fuck everything up.” I laughed. “I’ll bet it’s the second one.” Max dropped the remote and patted the couch beside him. “Come, have a chat with me.” I really wanted to go into the other room and give Nathan a piece of my mind, but the way Max was looking at me told me that might not be a good idea. I sat next to him, bristling when he wrapped a companionable arm around my shoulder. “I’m not getting fresh,” he assured me. “I just think better with my arm around a beautiful woman.” I rolled my eyes. “Then think fast, before I remove that arm.” “Okay, okay.” He chuckled. “Just let me give you some real quick advice. I’ve known Nathan for a while now. He hasn’t had a girlfriend since, God, I think it was ’84. And she wasn’t what you would call a wild woman. I think she was a CPA. “The point is, Nathan doesn’t get attached to people, and when he does, he has a tendency to shut down. There’s some scary shit in his past. I’m not even going to pretend to know the whole story. But he won’t let himself get close to anyone. So, if you’re thinking of going in there and tearing him a new one, keep in mind you might hurt him a little more than you intended to. And you’ll just prove his ‘love hurts’ theory right.” I swallowed hard, remembering words Cyrus had spat in anger. “Max, did Nathan really kill his wife?” It must have been a secret he was warned not to reveal, because he chewed his lip thoughtfully for a moment. “Don’t lie to me, Max. I’ll know if you do.” I lifted his arm off my shoulders. “Did Nathan kill his wife?” Max sighed. “Yes. At least, that’s what I’ve heard.” “But it wasn’t his fault,” I said, shaking my head. “I mean, he didn’t mean to do it, right?” “I wish I could tell you that, kiddo.” Max’s expression was heartbreakingly tender. “But he was a different person then.” I excused myself and headed for the room I’d only recently begun to think of as mine. The couch springs creaked miserably as Max stood. “He didn’t want you to go with us because he didn’t want you to get hurt. That was his main concern. I don’t know what’s going on with you two, but don’t waste the time you’ve got left. Take it from me, eternity gets pretty damn lonely after a while.” I lay awake for a long time, pondering Max’s words, and the knowledge that at any moment, I could just poof out of existence. It wasn’t fair to let Nathan and Max risk their lives to kill Cyrus. Not when he’d just end up killing me, too. No matter how many times I thought it through, I came to the same conclusion. I should go to Cyrus and kill him myself. If he took me out in the process, the



only loss would be me. And as far as I was concerned, I was dead already. I listened until I heard Max turn off the television, then I crept into Nathan’s bedroom. He woke immediately, bolting upright in bed. “Carrie? What’s wrong?” “Shh.” I peeled off my nightgown and climbed in beside him. His arms closed around me and he pulled me beneath him. This time, the only urgency came from his desire for me. He touched me as though reassuring himself I was still there, we still had time. We didn’t speak. I think we were both afraid of making it mean too much. Perhaps Nathan thought to spare me the pain of his death. I know I would have done anything to spare him the pain of mine. So when he kissed me, I kept the contact brief. When he slid down my body to tease me with his mouth, I didn’t cry out his name. And when he finally spoke to ask me what I wanted, I didn’t say I wanted him to make love to me. I told him to fuck me. Angrily, he obliged. He spread my legs wide and plunged into me. Besides that, the most contact our bodies made was the slap of his hips against my thighs and the hard grip he had on my ankles as he held them high and apart. The bed shook and slammed against the wall, and I didn’t bother to muffle my screams of pleasure. He came with a shudder that sounded like a sob and pulled me into a fierce embrace. I kissed his forehead and held him tight. Who was I kidding? Trying to block off my emotions for him would be like trying to stop a leak in the Hoover Dam with a cork. I had to know that eventually, the cork would shoot out and my feelings would just gush everywhere, bringing nothing but death and destruction to the valley below. Okay, maybe it wouldn’t be that dramatic. But it was foolish of me to think that I could deny the bond created by the blood tie, or my feelings for Nathan that had existed long before our tie was created. “Nathan,” I said softly through my tears. “Nathan, I—” “Please, don’t say it.” His words might have hurt me had I not felt the meaning behind them. Please, don’t say it, or I won’t be able to deny that I feel it. And I’m too afraid to let myself feel it. “I won’t,” I promised. He laced his fingers with mine and raised my hand to his lips. “Thank you.” But when he fell asleep, I kissed him and whispered, “I love you, Nathan.” Or Nolen. Or whatever. Even if I never get to find out who you are, I love you. Minutes after sunset, I slipped from his arms and dressed quietly. I didn’t leave a note because I had no idea what I planned to do. Only one thing was certain: by sunrise, either Cyrus would be dead, or I would be.

Twenty-Three Welcome Home
M y vampire heart beat loud in my chest as I approached Cyrus’s mansion. The windows were dark, and for a wild, panicked moment, I thought I’d missed my chance. Cyrus had moved on, my heart tucked away in some box that was hopefully marked Fragile. Then I saw a gentle glow in the huge, floor-to-ceiling windows of his study, and my heart sank further. Nothing would take this confrontation from me. It was time.



While charging through the front gate would have probably been the brave thing to do, I’d never prided myself on being exceptionally brave. It also didn’t seem like a good idea to walk, barely armed, up to the gates of a heavily guarded castle and politely ask to be let in. I patted my hip pocket, where I’d concealed a stake beneath the hem of my shirt. I didn’t even know if I had the physical power to use one against another vampire, especially Cyrus, but at least I’d have something to jab into one of the guards if they got too close. I followed the sidewalk around the end of the block. The entrance to the guardhouse was so far from the main gate that someone would naturally assume they were two separate residences. I passed the gate where Nathan and I had shared our secret meetings to plot Ziggy’s escape, and I thought of Nathan, still asleep in his bed. It seemed like all I had to do was walk into my room and Ziggy would be there, just like all those weeks ago. I glanced up the lawn. The lights were on in my old room. I felt an unexpected pang of jealousy at the thought I’d been replaced. A thin figure picked his way gingerly down the lawn, toward the hedge maze. I recognized that profile. “Clarence?” I called out. My voice echoed back at me in the cool air, and I gasped. He squinted, then straightened quickly as recognition dawned on him. “Doc?” My heart in my throat, I watched the old man scurry across the grass. The last thing I wanted was for him to break his hip. “Be careful!” “Be careful,” he mocked. “You’re a damn fool, coming back here. They told me you were dead!” From the pocket of his neatly pressed trousers, he produced a key ring covered with antique keys. After much muttering, he selected one and slipped it into the gate’s lock. Instead of crumbling to dust, it actually swung inward with a minimum of screeching. A few leaves from the clinging ivy pulled off, but no one would notice the gate had moved in a hundred years. “Get your ass in here,” he scolded, glancing nervously up at the house. “Now, you got some explaining to do. Did you eat that boy?” “What? No!” I said, a little too loudly. Clarence shushed me. “Keep your voice down. The master’s home, and he’s been in a real bad mood since his daddy left.” “I thought the Soul Eater couldn’t survive without his annual feeding?” “Ain’t nothing going to kill that bastard. Believe me, this isn’t the first time somebody tried.” Clarence shook his head. “What happened to the boy?” “Cyrus killed him.” I thought of the barrels in the basement and what Clarence had told me. “What did you do with him?” “I didn’t do anything with him. I had the night off. They probably burned him with the rest of them.” At least he wasn’t crammed in some barrel. I pointed to the house. “Where’s Cyrus?” “In the study. He’s been there since the night of the party, trying to avoid her.” His last statement was delivered in an accusing tone. “Her? Dahlia survived?” Clarence’s face scrunched in an almost comical expression of disapproval. “Seems somebody told her she should find herself a vampire to turn her at the party.” I ground my teeth. It would be one thing to fight Cyrus, but Dahlia was way out of my



league. “What about the guards?” “They’re trying to steer clear of Dahlia and the Master, but they’ll find you if you go in there.” He squinted at me. “You got backup coming, right?” “No. I might as well stake myself right here on the lawn,” I muttered, looking up at the looming facade of the house. “I got one in my back pocket,” Clarence offered. “This is gonna be ugly, isn’t it?” I nodded. “You might want to get out of here.” “No, when he’s gone, someone’s got to tidy things up around here,” he said with a sad smile. “You don’t have to stay. I’ve got friends, we could help you get a condo in Florida or something. Anywhere you want.” “I ain’t going nowhere.” He made a halfhearted shooing motion with his hands. “I told you before. I come with the house. You give him hell, Doc.” I wanted to hug him, but I wouldn’t ask him to lower himself to hug a vampire. I couldn’t understand why he wouldn’t jump at the chance for freedom. I also couldn’t understand the strange compulsion people had to stay in their homes to face hurricanes and floods rather than evacuate. Fear of change, maybe. Or denial of their mortality. Whatever the reason, Clarence seemed to share their stay-put mentality, and I knew I wouldn’t change his mind. I made him promise to stay near the guardhouse and not show his face until morning. I watched until he disappeared into the maze. Then I headed up to the house. After spending weeks in close quarters with the Fangs and Cyrus’s human groupies, the house felt downright empty. Apparently, he hadn’t gotten around to replacing the numerous pets he’d expended for the feast. The guards were there, though. The second I opened the French doors to the foyer, all hell broke loose. Two bodyguards waited for me in the center of the room. No doubt they’d watched me as I spoke to Clarence on the lawn, because reinforcements—a lot of them—jogged down the staircase. Behind me, the front doors flew open. I whirled to see Nathan and Max framed in the wide doorway. Relief and dread crashed through me. I’m saved, I thought. Then I thought, We’re all dead. “Don’t put on the coffee, we’re not staying long,” Max announced with a wide smile. “Get out of here, Nathan,” I screamed as the first guard reached me. His hands crushed my shoulders. I grasped his forearms and fell backward, flipping him over my body as another guard came at me. I sprang to my feet and elbowed the next contender hard in the face. Blood spurted from between his fingers as he covered his broken nose. I punched him in the groin. When he doubled over I grabbed his shoulders and rammed the top of his head into my knee. He dropped limply to the floor. I looked to Max and Nathan. Max had knocked out one guard and used a stun gun to put down another. Nathan was cornered by an opponent brandishing a stake. He tried to dodge it, but the blow landed the wooden spike in his shoulder. “No!” I charged forward. Another set of hands closed on me. In my haste to get to Nathan, I gave a hard shove and sent the man flying into the wall. He crumpled like a rag doll. I reached Nathan’s side as he pulled the stake free and a torrent of blood spilled out. The guard pulled another stake from his belt and lunged, but not before I caught him. I bared



my fangs before I realized I’d changed. If Nathan hadn’t called to me, I would have bitten into the man’s neck. “Why not let her?” Max and Nathan froze at the voice. I let go of the guard and turned. Cyrus strode from the open doors of the study. His hair was half tied back in a disheveled braid, and his fur-lined robe seemed to swallow him up. Dark hollows beneath his eyes marred his pale complexion. He looked like he hadn’t slept or fed in days. “You’ve never had the chance to see her feed, have you, Nolen?” He smiled sadly. “It’s something every sire should experience.” Arms gripped me from behind at the same time I saw guards grab Nathan and Max. I tensed, prepared to fight, but I felt the point of a stake against my breastbone. My gaze met Nathan’s and I heard his voice in my head. Don’t move. Max turned his face to look at Nathan. “What the hell is he talking about?” Cyrus crossed to me, stroking the side of my face gently with the back of his hand. With the blood tie between us dead, I felt nothing but revulsion. His eyes, one gold-flecked green, the other his own, icy blue, turned cold and hollow. “It really is over, then.” Howling in outrage, like a child whose mischief had been thwarted, he pounded his thighs with his fists. He rounded on Nathan. “Why? Why did you take her from me?” “I’d like to know that myself,” Max said through clenched teeth. Oh, God, don’t let him turn on us. I didn’t know Max well enough to tell if he’d report Nathan’s indiscretion to the Movement, or if he’d just be disgusted enough to abandon this mission. Nathan sent me a comforting thought. Don’t worry, sweetheart. He’s not going anywhere. We’re going to get out of this. “You’ve got no one to blame but yourself, Cyrus.” Nathan nodded in my direction. “You killed her in that alley. My blood restored her. Finders keepers.” Just as he finished his sentence, Cyrus struck him. Nathan’s head snapped back and blood seeped from his nose. For a moment, I feared he would lose consciousness. Cyrus shook his wrist, a pained look on his face. For hands so accustomed to violence, they were awfully delicate. “Finders keepers? Like the way I found your cast-off child and made him my own?” Nathan struggled to break free, and would have managed, if four other guards hadn’t rushed in to hold him. Vampires are strong, but not that strong. One of the sentries brought his knee up hard between Nathan’s legs. He doubled over with a grunt of pain. “Cyrus, please, tell them to stop!” I cried. My former sire snapped his fingers to the guard restraining me, and the stake at my chest pierced my skin. Nathan stopped struggling immediately. Rather than panicking, he laughed. “Cyrus, you know staking her isn’t going to do anything.” “Won’t it?” The wood pressed deeper, digging into my flesh. While it wouldn’t cause me to ash-out and burst into flame, a wound to my remaining heart probably wasn’t something to sneeze at. “Stop, please!”



Don’t beg him, Carrie. I can’t stand to hear you beg. Nathan’s eyes were distraught. I looked away. “Cyrus, knock it off,” he growled. “Look, I’m playing nice.” “That’s noble of you.” Cyrus waved away the sentry that held me. “It’s so nice that you’d defend her after what she did to your son.” Nathan shook his head. “Not going to work, Cyrus. I’m her sire now. I can see—” I tried to hold back my memories from the night I’d fed from Ziggy, but in my panic, they overwhelmed me. They were powerfully vivid and painfully erotic. And I couldn’t hide them from Nathan. His anger swelled, but no more than I’d expected. I wanted to tell you, I thought firmly, but he didn’t answer. Nathan purposely ignored the blood tie, and after decades of shutting out the Soul Eater, he’d perfected his technique. My thoughts bounced off him like tennis balls against a brick wall. But he didn’t show any outward sign of my betrayal. “She told me everything. Sorry to disappoint you.” “I really wish someone would have told me everything,” Max snarled. “I’m probably gonna get marked for death just for breathing the same air as all of you. I don’t know what’s going on here, but this is fucked up!” A frown creased Cyrus’s brow. “Kill that one.” “No!” Nathan and I shouted at the same time. I felt some of his rage toward me ebb, like a stone lifting off my chest. “Oh, you’re going to bargain with me now? The two of you?” He laughed. “You should both know better.” More guards rushed into the room. In groups of ten, one group for each of us, they bound our hands behind our backs. “Take him to Dahlia’s room,” Cyrus said, gesturing to Max. “The other two can join me in the study.” “We’ll reconvene after,” Nathan called to Max. As if they were simply parting to spend their lunch hours in different restaurants, Max shouted back, “Sure thing. Get in a few good hits for me.” Then, to the guards I heard him ask, “So, this Dahlia, is she eighteen?” Half the guards following us remained outside and flanked the door at Cyrus’s request. That still left us with ten on the inside, far too many for me, an inexperienced fighter, and Nathan, with his wounded shoulder, to take on alone. “Afraid of me, Cyrus?” Nathan sniped as the doors closed behind us. I eventually gave up trying to unbind my wrists. I could barely get the tags off a pair of new shoes. What were the chances I’d manage to Houdini my way out of a plastic zip tie? The only light in the room came from the fireplace. I saw the elegant shape of Cyrus’s profile against the flames. He didn’t look at us. “So it’s come to this. You’re here to take my life, when you’ve taken everything else from me.” What was he talking about? “I haven’t taken anything from—” “He’s talking to me,” Nathan said, his gaze fixed on Cyrus. “I’m not going to apologize for anything. You reap what you’ve sown.” “What I’ve sown?” Cyrus whirled around, his ruthless eyes shining in the firelight. “I’ve


