
only done what every fledgling is bound to do by the blood tie. I’ve been loyal to my sire!” Nathan laughed bitterly. “Don’t use that tired excuse again! We have the same sire. I didn’t lose my free will when he poured his blood down my throat!” “The very thing I’ve been trying to convince you of for years!” Cyrus shouted at him, then turned to me. “I hope you will keep that in mind, Carrie, when considering what happened to his wife.” I glared at him but remained silent. He circled us menacingly, like a shark in a feeding frenzy. “Did Nolen ever tell you what he did to his wife?” “No.” I couldn’t look at Nathan. “But I know.” “Carrie?” Nathan’s shock resonated through me. Max told me. I wished I could reach for Nathan’s hand. Something told me he wouldn’t have taken it, though. Cyrus leaned close to my ear. “I doubt you know the whole story.” He moved away suddenly, motioning to the sofa as though Nathan and I were dinner party guests who’d arrived unfashionably early. “Please, have a seat. I’ll tell you all about it.” Nathan lunged forward. I had no idea what he’d planned to do without the use of his hands, but it didn’t matter. Two guards grabbed him by the shoulders and hauled him backward. Although his back was turned, Cyrus lifted his hand in warning. “I wouldn’t, if I were you. There’s no possible way you’ll survive, and then who will protect your fledgling?” He turned and pointed a taloned finger directly at me. “Believe me, I won’t hesitate to kill her once you’re gone.” “What’s stopping you right now?” Nathan asked. He didn’t mean that. As angry as I knew he was that I’d fed from Ziggy, he wouldn’t let Cyrus kill me. He was fishing for information. Cyrus paused. “Nothing, I suppose. But it would be a shame to waste such a fun ride.” Nathan clenched his jaw at that. “Oh, I see I hit a nerve. Tell me, Nolen, are you offended because you share that opinion, or because you have no frame of reference?” “What I was getting at, dick, was why didn’t you kill her in the alley? I don’t think you’ll do it.” I should have known something nasty was coming when Cyrus smiled. He walked up to Nathan and struck him so hard that I heard the bones of his face crack. Nathan’s head swiveled to the side, twisting his body as he fell. Cyrus rounded on me, his eyes furious. “I suppose you think you’ll be spared? Saved by some lingering feelings I harbor for you?” I nodded. “If you were going to kill me, you would have done it already.” He slapped me. “I no longer owe you my patience. I’d rip your throat out now, but I wouldn’t want the taste of his blood on my mouth.” Kicking Nathan aside, he pointed to the sofa. “Sit.” I did as I was told to avoid inflicting any further pain on myself or Nathan, on the off chance he wasn’t dead. Seating himself in the wing chair facing me, Cyrus folded his hands in his lap. I noticed for the first time how fragile and bony his fingers looked. I wanted to snap them one by one.



Or crush them with a hammer. One of the advantages of no longer being his fledgling was my ability to think freely without him reading my every intent. Though I no longer had to block him from my mind, I’d never been able to disguise the emotions on my face. A slow smile widened his mouth as he watched me. “You hate me, don’t you?” It was a straightforward question, and harbored none of the sadness I remembered from our time together, when he’d asked me if I loved him. I squeezed my hands into fists. “Does it matter? You say you’re going to kill me, anyway.” Chuckling, he reached for something on the marble table beside him. “No, Carrie. I must concede. I was never planning to kill you.” The object he’d reached for was a sleek, lacquered box. It reminded me of the boxes Nathan sold in the shop to hold tarot cards and crystals, except this one looked much more expensive and was fitted with an ornate lock. Cyrus pulled the box into his lap, resting his hands protectively over it. “Now, tell me what you know about your sire. I’m dying to hear his version of the story.” I had a good idea what was in the box, but I tore my gaze from it. “He didn’t tell me anything. Max told me Nathan killed his wife. And when I—” I stumbled over the words I didn’t want to say. “When I drank your blood, I saw what happened to him at one of your Vampire New Year parties. But I don’t know how it all fits together.” Cyrus steepled his fingers in front of his mouth. “Yes, from what I understand, Nolen can be a very private person.” Snapping his fingers, Cyrus motioned to Nathan. Holding the box tight to his chest, Cyrus stood and retrieved a crystal champagne flute from a tray on the mantel. Instead of filling it with the sparkling green absinthe in the decanter beside it, he moved to where the guards hauled Nathan to his feet. “Shall you do the honors, or shall I?” Nathan was unconscious. His head drooped forward, hiding the bloody mess that was his face. It was a miracle Cyrus hadn’t killed him. The thought had barely crossed my mind when Cyrus pulled a dagger from his sleeve and plunged it into Nathan’s side. “No!” I tried to stand, but with my arms tied, my balance was sorely lacking. I fell to the sofa and tipped sideways. Cyrus filled the glass halfway with Nathan’s blood, then wiped the knife clean on Nathan’s soiled T-shirt. “Let’s not overreact, Carrie. You knew he was going to die when he came through the front door. But he does need to live, for now. At least, until you can see what I need you to see.” He drew the blade across his wrist, letting the ensuing stream of blood mix with Nathan’s in the glass. I thought they should have reacted violently toward each other, fizzing and foaming or separating like oil and water, but the dark liquid blended into one murky cocktail. When it was full, Cyrus held the glass to my lips. “Drink it.” Closing my eyes, I smelled the familiar scent of Cyrus and felt the call of my sire. What would happen when I drank it? The hard edge of the knife poked my throat, an insistent, dangerous pressure. “Drink it.”



Wetting my lips, I opened my mouth. It’s now or never. You wanted answers, you’re about to get them. I gulped down the mixed blood of my sire and my enemy, and braced myself for the darkness that would consume me.

Twenty-Four (Dis)Closure
T he visions flew at me, two lifetimes of memories piling into my head at once. I feared I’d burst apart, unable to contain it all. Maybe that was Cyrus’s plan. It was either that, or he wanted to make me mad with the emotions. There was fear, brief happiness, love, but above all, there was pain. I think I might have screamed, but I didn’t feel my body anymore. I slid into the memories like a ghost, disembodied from the participants, a voyeur of pure consciousness. One night in particular unfolded like a movie before my eyes. The night of the Vampire New Year. The night Nathan had been changed. Cyrus sat at the table beside a woman I knew was named Elsbeth. She was his fledgling, I realized. They’d been together for just over two hundred years, but it was clear that he loved her far more than she cared for him. A brief glance at their posture, the adoring way he leaned toward her while she didn’t bother to spare him a glance, told all. It was the same room I’d seen through Cyrus’s eyes when I’d drunk his blood before, but I never saw Elsbeth’s apathy, because he hadn’t. He’d never been aware that she didn’t love him. I almost pitied him. In an instant, I shifted into his head. There had been an argument. He’d asked her for something, to do something she didn’t want to do. To give him her heart. He’d meant it literally. He’d wanted her to willingly give him what he’d stolen from me. I would have been sick if I had a body left to feel. Wrenching myself from his mind, I watched the doors to the room open. Nathan and his wife entered. I couldn’t access her mind, but Nathan’s was, for once, wide-open. He recognized Jacob Seymour, the faith healer they’d traveled across the world to meet, but was surprised by the strange robe the man wore. And he wondered who all the people seated around the table were. Jacob’s son, he knew. The handsome young man was Simon, and the woman seated beside him was his wife, Elsbeth. But what were they all doing here? Had they arrived too early and interrupted a dinner party? When the doors slammed shut behind them, I felt his alarm. He knew something was wrong, in the way he’d known Jacob Seymour’s promises were too good to be true. He’d tricked Marianne, his beautiful Marianne, into hoping for a cure for her illness, because he’d wanted to believe. I wish I’d never brought her here. As the dispassionate faces seated at the table began to twist into their true forms, Nathan began to pray. But the Holy Spirit, Jesus Christ, and the Blessed Virgin all turned their backs, the way he’d turned away from them when his prayers did nothing to stop the cancer that ravaged his wife’s young body. “Nolen?” Marianne whispered, her already pale face white with terror. I fled his mind as the monsters closed in on him. If I’d had eyes to close, I would have, but



there was no way to avoid the sight. Nathan tried to shield Marianne from fangs and claws, but gnarled hands dragged him from the pack. “This one is for me!” the Soul Eater roared. Then, propelling Nathan toward Cyrus, he said, “Simon, make your father proud.” Nathan struggled as Cyrus pulled him into his arms. He reached for Marianne, but the distance was impossible, and too many vampires blocked the way. This is hell. I am damned. I tried to block his panicked thoughts, but they were too strong. Cyrus slashed the buttons from the front of Nathan’s shirt in one smooth motion. He splayed his clawed hand across the tanned skin that was revealed, stroking down, over Nathan’s tightly muscled abdomen. Marianne’s screams were weak and growing fainter by the moment. “Let her live!” Nathan begged. “Please, let her live!” The Soul Eater considered a moment, then clapped his hands, a gesture I’d seen Cyrus mimic many times. The vampires who’d fallen on Marianne looked up, confusion showing as best as it could on their demonic faces. “A change of plans,” the Soul Eater snarled. “Out, all of you.” They cleared, grumbling their displeasure. Some hissed as they slid past their master. On the floor, Marianne moaned, her fang-marked limbs deathly still. Her chest rose and fell with shallow breaths. Elsbeth scowled at her father-in-law. “You’re always doing this, Jacob. You change your plans without consulting any of us. It’s not fair. I haven’t fed in days!” The Soul Eater grabbed her. “You’ll find it much more difficult to feed when I snap your pretty head off your neck. Now get out.” “Father?” Cyrus still held his prize, but his attention was focused on Elsbeth. “We’ll let the sick one die on her own. With any luck, she’ll live to see him killed.” With a final nod to Nathan, the Soul Eater stepped out the door. “It’s been lovely meeting you, Mrs. Galbraith.” Without willing it, I was once again in Nathan’s mind. Marianne lifted a limp hand toward him, her eyes imploring him to help her. But he couldn’t. He was tired. Tired of chasing a cure from continent to continent, only to see one hope die after another. Tired of dreading her death, tired of the guilt he felt when he wished it would just be over. Perhaps this was his punishment. He turned his head away. “It appears that it’s just the three of us,” Cyrus rasped against Nathan’s ear. The feeling of another man’s hands on him made the bile rise in Nathan’s throat. He squeezed his eyes shut tight as those hands moved lower, releasing the button of his trousers. The cold fingers closed over him, stroking him to arousal against his will. He sobbed a Hail Mary as Cyrus’s fangs sunk into his neck. Please, I begged no one in particular. Please, I don’t want to know this. So instead, I watched the frescoed ceiling, concentrating on the fat cherubs smiling down on the horrific scene instead of Nathan’s screams of pain and terror. The nightmare was sadistically long. After he’d broken him physically, mentally and emotionally, Cyrus left Nathan naked and violated on the freezing marble floor, small amounts of his blood leaking from a dozen open veins. He was dead by the time anyone returned. The Soul Eater slid into the room with Cyrus at his side. “Very good, Simon. You’ve



given him real potential.” He knelt beside Nathan’s abused body and cradled his head in his lap. “I don’t know if I’d call it potential. He’ll only last until your next meal.” There was an edge of annoyance in Cyrus’s voice. The Soul Eater stroked Nathan’s arms lovingly. “No, I think I have other plans for this one.” He lifted his wrist and bit down hard, audibly puncturing the skin and veins. Then he pressed his wounded wrist to Nathan’s slack mouth. The blood slowly brought animation to Nathan’s body. First, his mouth as he twitched his lips. Then his arms as they lifted to clutch at the Soul Eater. It took less than two minutes for the change to complete. Alarm flared through Cyrus. I could feel it without entering his mind. “Father, think of what you’re doing. Your blood is weak already. It will barely keep him alive. You won’t be able to feed from him. Let me turn him, as we planned.” Nathan lurched to his feet, his eyes wild. Hungry. The Soul Eater ignored Cyrus, focusing instead on his new child. “Look at you. You’re parched. My old blood can’t sustain you.” At that inopportune moment, Marianne cried out feebly. Like the moan of a dying animal, it caught the attention of the predators around her. To his credit, Nathan tried to fight it. “It will just get worse,” his sire taunted. “The hunger will gnaw at you. It will drive you crazy.” Cyrus grew more anxious by the second. “Father, kill him. You can’t survive another year without feeding.” The Soul Eater continued to ignore his son. “Nolen, please. You know she’s going to die, anyway. Look at her. She’s barely alive.” Contrary to what he said, the haze in Marianne’s eyes lifted. I was glad that I couldn’t see inside her head, to know what she saw when she looked at Nathan. “Nolen, what are you doing?” He covered his face. “I can’t.” The fatherly affection in the Soul Eater’s tone vanished. “You will. You’re feeling the hunger I have carried for centuries. If you think it hurts now, imagine how you’ll feel in a week. In a month. Take her and ease your suffering, or I’ll be sure you wish you had!” Nathan’s pain reached out and sucked me in. I’d felt hunger before, but nothing like this. The Soul Eater’s blood was already depleted. The cells and tissue of Nathan’s body tried to draw nourishment from the blood, but it was a by-product, stripped of the power needed to fuel his vampire flesh. It was too much to fight both the hunger and the will of his sire. Marianne screamed when Nathan grabbed her. “I’m sorry. I’m so sorry,” he murmured against her neck an instant before he pierced her flesh with his newborn fangs. “I don’t want to see anymore!” I cried, unaware I’d regained control of my body. But the vision didn’t end. The Soul Eater watched with perverse satisfaction as Nathan drained the last drops of Marianne’s blood.



“Let her out of it, Cyrus!” The Nathan I saw before me in the vision hadn’t spoken, but it was his voice I heard from the present. “She needs to see!” Cyrus’s words overlapped an echo of his voice as he spoke to the Soul Eater. “Father, kill him! He’s fed, his blood is replenished. Feed from him!” The Soul Eater shook his head. “He is too strong. Remarkably so. I couldn’t possibly waste him. I do believe he will be of greater use to me in the future, through the tie. We must always think of the future, my son. I’ll have to find another.” “There’s no time. If you don’t feed, you’ll die!” On the floor, Nathan rocked Marianne and sobbed. Cyrus met his father’s gaze, horror dawning on his face. “No.” “She’s been a thorn in my side since you turned her.” The Soul Eater strode to the doors. “Father, no!” He gripped Jacob’s robe. Furious, the Soul Eater jerked the fabric from his son’s hands. “Stop your sniveling, boy. Would you rather I take you instead? You’ll find another. One who obeys. One more worthy of sharing our blood.” He kicked Cyrus backward, and before he could rise to his feet, the doors snapped shut, barring him from the outside. “Elsbeth! Elsbeth !” He screamed until his throat grew hoarse. His talons gouged the wood of the doors, but they remained locked. The minutes slipped past, the wait unbearable. Finally, her horrified cries shattered the silence in the house, then just as quickly subsided. The vision became grainy. I hovered in a void, surrounded by the sound of Nathan’s weeping and Cyrus’s enraged sobs. “She’s dying! Help her!” I opened my eyes to the present to see Nathan struggling against the guards that held him. A third stepped in to help, but he wasn’t needed. As soon as I stopped gasping for breath and sat up, he calmed. Sometime during the dream, I’d rolled from the sofa. My head throbbed and my back ached, from hitting the floor or as a result of some weird aftereffect of the sanguine cocktail, I had no idea. Cyrus gripped my bound wrists and hauled me to my feet. His touch was purposely rough. “I hope that shed some light on our difficult situation here. And I hope you understand why I did what I did.” “To whom?” I snarled. “To Nathan? Or his wife? Or your fledgling? What exactly am I supposed to understand here?” “That he’s a killer!” Cyrus’s rage was so sudden and violent, I trembled in fear. All the anguish of the past centuries curled into his words. The pain in his voice cut into me so deeply that I felt it myself, even without the blood tie between us. As quickly as it had come, his anger subsided. In the defeated tone of a tired child, he spoke again. “He is a killer, and you left me to be with him.” “I didn’t.” I turned and looked him in the eyes, and the sorrow there stole my breath. “When you took my heart in that alley, you let me die. Nathan saved my life. It wasn’t my choice.” “It doesn’t matter. What’s done is done. When he is dead, things can go back to the way they were.” Cyrus snapped his fingers to the guards. “Kill him.”



Nathan roared and rushed past the guards. With his hands bound, he could do little more than charge headfirst at Cyrus and knock him into the wall beside the fireplace. And that’s what he did. The collision was loud, and it dented the dark wood paneling, but Cyrus recovered quickly, kicking Nathan to the floor. Laughing, Cyrus grabbed the fireplace poker from the rack on the hearth and raised it over Nathan’s back. Even if I warned him, he wouldn’t be able to get out of the way in time. With a scream of rage, I yanked my hands apart. The plastic tie cut into my skin, but it broke. I was free. Before the guards could react, I ran toward Cyrus, barreling shoulder first into him. We toppled onto the Persian rug, knocking over two chairs as we fell. I grabbed a handful of his hair and tugged, forcing him to face me. “If you’re going to kill me, just do it and leave him alone!” He yanked free, leaving a white-blond lock twined in my fist. He brushed himself off and stood. “I don’t want to kill you, Carrie. But it’s out of my hands now.” Guards lifted Nathan from the hearth and threw him into a chair. He breathed hard. The jagged wound where Cyrus had stabbed him seeped fresh blood. “What do you mean, it’s out of your hands?” I asked. Another guard stepped forward to grab me, and I growled at him. “Leave her,” Cyrus commanded with a smirk. “I have a proposition for her.” I grabbed the guard and twisted his head to the side, exposing the pulsing artery in his neck. “You better start explaining or so help me God, I’ll kill him right here.” Cyrus laughed. “What do I care? I have dozens more just like him.” Touché. Out of frustration, I wrung the guard’s arm until it snapped. He sagged to the ground, howling in agony, and I kicked him forward, pinning his head to the floor with the heel of my shoe. “Talk, or you’ll be cleaning brains out of this fancy-ass rug!” “Very good. It’s amazing you’ve come this far, with only him to learn from. The power in you…it’s intoxicating.” Cyrus moved toward me slowly. I took a step back, and the sentry crawled away, cradling his ruined arm to his chest. I backed into the marble-topped table. Cyrus kept advancing. “Think of what you could become, if only you’d come back to me. I could make you mine again. Drain your blood, bring you to the point of death and then fill you up again.” He stroked my cheek, his fingernail scoring a painful incision through my skin. I gritted my teeth to keep from wincing. “You never filled me up before, so I can’t imagine you accomplishing it now.” “That’s rather cheap, Carrie. I thought you knew better.” He turned away from me to face Nathan. “I sent Father a rather interesting package last night. He should be receiving it any moment now.” Nathan shrugged. “Is this information in any way relevant to our current situation?” “As a matter of fact, it is.” Cyrus looped his arm around my waist and pulled me forward. “Since he missed his annual feeding and the victim intended for him is deceased, I thought it only fitting to send him a little takeout. Carrie’s heart.” Nathan’s calm facade wavered. “Why?” “An eye for an eye.” Cyrus pushed me aside. “And, to borrow another phrase, it will kill two birds with one stone. Carrie disobeyed me, and she had to be punished. Your life cost



me Elsbeth, and I deserve something in return. If you thought losing your precious human boy was bad, wait until you feel the blood tie wither and go cold. Wait until you experience her death, with no way to prevent it. But I won’t kill you, Nathan. You’ll feel her death every day of your life, as I’ve lived with the pain of losing Elsbeth.” Disbelief froze me in place. I was going to die. Even if we killed Cyrus right now, the Soul Eater would devour my heart. I was dead already. I opened my mouth to speak, but I couldn’t say anything. Cyrus patted my head in a mocking gesture of comfort. “Of course, I used a personal courier. I could call him back at any time, if you wished to make an arrangement.” A flashback of the night I’d exchanged my freedom for Nathan’s life sickened me. “Let me guess. If I stay with you, you’ll give me back my heart and let Nathan go?” Clapping his hands, just like his father, Cyrus laughed. “No. Nolen is going to die, one way or another. But I’m giving you the choice to live. Stay here with me, become mine again, and I’ll call off my father’s feeding.” Without thinking, I lifted my hand, aimed for his one good eye and stabbed my finger hard into the socket. He screamed in rage and lurched away from me. Blood trickled from beneath his hand as he covered the side of his face. “I’m not going to be your prisoner again. I’d rather die,” I snarled. And I meant it. No matter what I’d thought he felt for me, I had only been to him what everyone else in his life was. A piece of property, a pawn. I hadn’t played according to his rules. I’d broken down the order he cherished, and in doing so, I’d destroyed his feelings for me. Maybe I had loved him, but I could live without love if it compromised my free will. That’s when I decided to make the most of what was left of my life. If I was going to die, I would go out fighting. The remaining guards rushed me. If I’d been worried about the Movement’s rules, I would have tried not to do too much damage. But it seemed that the best course of action would be to grab heads and twist. I’d killed three by the time Nathan appeared at my side. His wrists bled where he’d broken free of the binding. “I’m sorry,” I said immediately, kicking back a guard. “Don’t apologize, get Cyrus!” I looked up. He’d nearly reached the door. I leapt over the back of the sofa and blocked him. “Going somewhere?” “Guards!” he shouted, trying to get past me and still hold his eye in place. “Go ahead, call more in! I don’t care. I’m dead.” I stepped closer, pulling a stake from my back pocket. “And as far as I’m concerned, so are you. Now, you can go out like a little bitch with your bodyguards backing you up, or you can fight me until one of us is dead. It’s your call. Unless you’re afraid.” He dropped his hand from his bloodied face. His eye dangled from the socket on a cord of flesh. He pushed it back in and blinked to clear the blood-occluded lens. “I think I’ve underestimated you, Carrie.” Then, turning to the guards swarming Nathan, he shouted, “Everyone out!” I glanced at Nathan. He’d collapsed to the floor, but he was alive. I could feel his strength coursing through me.



Cyrus stepped back so the guards could file out of the room. I sprang forward and plunged the stake into his skull through his borrowed eye. The bones of the socket separated with a crack. I could have rammed the stake right into his heart to get it over with, but I wanted him to suffer. “Whoops, was I supposed to wait for a signal or something?” The absurdity of the situation and my actions forced nerve-racked laughter from my throat. It died on a hysterical sob of despair, and I clenched my hands in front of me so hard I drew blood from my palms with my nails. He pulled ineffectually on the stake protruding from his face. My shock melted away and I seized the opportunity to grab him and pin his arms behind his back. “You know what’s great about Nathan? His blood is ten times more concentrated than yours because he hasn’t wasted it on a bunch of loser fledglings.” I wrenched the stake from his eye, flinging droplets of blood across the room. Then I stabbed the sharpened wood into his back. “You know what? I think it makes me stronger!” Despite the bravado of my words, my voice shook. His legs crumpled beneath him and he tried to speak, but choked on his blood. I closed my eyes and took the deepest breath I’ve ever taken in my whole life. The part of me that still believed he could be good wanted to escape the part of me that wounded him in rage. Guilt tore through me for doing something so violent to a man I’d thought I might have loved, but my logical mind was stronger. Cyrus had earned this, and if I didn’t kill him, he would repeat this sick game with other fledglings for an eternity. Summoning more courage, I twisted the stake and he gasped. “Drop him!” I looked up. Dahlia entered, pushing Max ahead of her. She surveyed the scene coolly. “Go help your friend,” she barked at Max, pointing at Nathan. “I want to have a word with Carrie.” The last time I saw Dahlia, she’d been running from a horde of hungry vampires. Now the air around her seemed to vibrate with unchecked power. Panic shot through me. I’d had more confidence fighting Cyrus, because I knew I would die, anyway. I hadn’t really given much thought to what would happen to Nathan and Max afterward. They might have been able to hold their own against Cyrus, but I was pretty sure that even together they were no match for Dahlia. But Max was still alive. I guess that stood as testament to his way with the ladies. Hopefully it would get Nathan and him out of this mess when I’d burned to cinders. Dahlia stood before me, her hands placed on her wide hips. “You marked me for death.” Gasping for breath on the marble floor, Cyrus tried to grab my leg. “Stay down!” Dahlia made a sweeping gesture with her hands and he fell back, pinned by invisible hands. I swallowed hard. “I didn’t know exactly how the whole ‘marked for death’ thing worked. I thought he’d offer Ziggy to his guests, and turn you.” “And then I’d get eaten by the Soul Eater?” There was a surprising lack of anger in her question. She didn’t accuse me so much as state a fact. The least I could do was be honest. “Maybe. I thought Cyrus would change you, but as far as the rest of the plan went, you were on your own.” “As usual.” She sighed. “It actually worked out better this way. I got my blood, I got my



power—” “And I’m assuming a random biker vampire got himself a very nice piece of ugly dragon jewelry in exchange for a few pints of blood,” I interrupted. Dahlia raised an eyebrow. “Very astute of you.” She must have released Cyrus from whatever spell she’d cast, because he climbed to his feet unhindered. Lifting a hand to his blood-streaked face, he pressed his remaining eye back into its socket. “You don’t think I turned her, did you? I wouldn’t waste my blood.” I expected Dahlia to fly into a rage or strike him down or fall apart the way I’d seen her do before. But she just smiled. “Of course not. You never would have. You were just going to string me along until you got bored. Then you were going to kill me.” “Oh, but for a while you believed you had me,” he said with a laugh. “God, but you were easy to manipulate.” Cyrus turned to me. “That’s why I became so bored with her. The things I got her to do, Carrie. You thought what I did to you was bad.” “I really don’t care to hear about it.” No matter what had transpired between Dahlia and me, she didn’t deserve whatever perverse torture he’d inflicted on her. But she seemed genuinely unaffected by his taunting. “And I’d do it again. I got what I wanted. So did you. But you’re not going to kill me,” she said. A strange buzzing started in my head. It was as if someone had turned on a television, but all I could hear was the high-pitched frequency noise. Dahlia’s voice filled my head. It was nothing like the communication I’d had with Cyrus or Nathan through the blood tie. This was a different connection, watery and slightly garbled, and it made my skull vibrate with pain, but I could understand it enough to get her meaning. “The package never left the premises.” I saw her lips moving as she spoke to Cyrus, his superior expression as he answered her, but I couldn’t hear their words. I shook my head as if I were trying to clear water from my ears. “Thank you,” I thought back to her, my words ricocheting unpleasantly in my skull. “I’ll never be able to repay you.” “This doesn’t mean I like you. We’re not gonna go shopping for shoes or whatever the hell you’re thinking.” There was a moment of silence, then the buzzing stopped, then her next words were crystal clear in my mind. “Kill him.” I saw her tremble as she turned to leave the room. “He will kill me eventually. I need him dead. I’d do it, but I can’t. Kill him, and I’ll pay you back with your heart.” So, she did love him. Not enough to trust him with her life, and she shouldn’t have, but she did love him. She’d claimed it wasn’t his power that had drawn her to him. I’d had a hard time believing that, but now it was apparent. What had she said to me before? Some things aren’t good or evil. Some things just…are. I guess Dahlia just was, like a tornado or a tidal wave. A force of nature. I wasn’t going to try to understand her motives beyond simple self-preservation. She paused as she passed me on her way to the door. “Make it quick. Don’t let him suffer.” Then she left. I was so busy watching after her in awe that I forgot she’d released Cyrus. It was Max’s shout that alerted me. “Carrie, look out!”
