to Merlotte's hadn't exactly been a success. So I was trying to absorb every detail I could; I would treasure this encounter and re-hash it for a long, long time. It was rare, a prize. I wanted to touch his skin again. I couldn't remember how it felt. But that would be going beyond some boundary of manners, and also maybe start him going on the seductive crap again. "Would you like to drink the blood they collected?" he asked unexpectedly. "It would be a way for me to show my gratitude." He gestured at the stoppered vials lying on theblacktop. "My blood is supposed to improve your sex life and your health." "I'm healthy as a horse," I told him honestly. "And I have no sex life to speak of. You do what you want with it." "You could sell it," he suggested, but I thought he was just waiting to see what I'd say about that. "I wouldn't touch it," I said, insulted. "You're different," he said. "What are you?" He seemed to be going through a list of possibilities in his head from the way he was looking at me. To my pleasure, I could not hear a one of them. "Well. I'm Sookie Stackhouse, and I'm a waitress," I told him. "What's your name?" I thought I could at least ask that without being presuming. "Bill," he said. Before I could stop myself, I rocked back onto my butt with laughter. "The vampire Bill!" I said. "I thought it might be Antoine, or Basil, or Langford! Bill!" I hadn't laughed so hard in a long time. "Well, see ya, Bill. I got to get back to work." I could feel the tense grin snap back into place when I thought of Merlotte's. I put my hand on Bill's shoulder and pushed up. It was rock hard, and I was on my feet so fast I had to stop myself from stumbling. I examined my socks to make sure their cuffs were exactly even, and I looked up and down my outfit to check for wear and tear during the fight with the Rats. I dusted off my bottom since I'd been sitting on the dirty pavement and gave Bill a wave as I started off across the parking lot. It had been a stimulating evening, one with a lot of food for thought. I felt almost as cheerful as my smile when I considered it. But Jason was going to be mighty angry about the chain. after work thatnight, I drove home, which is only about four miles south from the bar. Jason had been gone (and so had DeeAnne) when I got back to work, and that had been another good thing. I was reviewing the evening as I drove to my grandmother's house, where I lived. It's right before Tall Pines cemetery, which lies off a narrow two-lane parish road. My great-great-great grandfather had started the house, and he'd had ideas about privacy, so to reach it you had to turn off the parish road into the driveway, go through some woods, and then you arrived at the clearing in which the house stood. It's sure not any historic landmark, since most of the oldest parts have been ripped down and replaced over the years, and of course it's got electricity and plumbing and insulation, all that good modern stuff. But it still has a tin roof that gleams blindingly on sunny days. When the roof needed to be replaced, I wanted to put regular roofing tiles on it, but my grandmother said no. Though I was paying, it's her house; so naturally, tin it was.



Historical or not, I'd lived in this house since I was about seven, and I'd visited it often before then, so I loved it. It was just a big old family home, too big for Granny and me, I guess. It had a broad front covered by a screened-in porch, and it was painted white, Granny being a traditionalist all the way. I went through the big living room, strewn with battered furniture arranged to suit us, and down the hall to the first bedroom on the left, the biggest. Adele Hale Stackhouse, my grandmother, was propped up in her high bed, about a million pillows padding her skinny shoulders. She was wearing a long-sleeved cotton nightgown even in the warmth of this spring night, and her bedside lamp was still on. There was a book propped in her lap. "Hey," I said. "Hi, honey." My grandmother is very small and very old, but her hair is still thick, and so white it almost has the very faintest of green tinges. She wears it kind of rolled against her neck during the day, but at night it's loose or braided. I looked at the cover of her book. "You reading Danielle Steele again?" "Oh, that woman can sure tell a story." My grandmother's great pleasures were reading Danielle Steele, watching her soap operas (which she called her "stories") and attending meetings of the myriad clubs she'd belonged to all her adult life, it seemed. Her favorites were the Descendants of the Glorious Dead and the Bon Temps Gardening Society. "Guess what happened tonight?" I asked her. "What? You got a date?" "No," I said, working to keep a smile on my face. "A vampire came into the bar." "Ooh, did he have fangs?" I'd seen them glisten in the parking lot lights when the Rats were draining him, but there was no need to describe that to Gran. "Sure, but they were retracted." "A vampire right here in Bon Temps." Granny was as pleased as punch. "Did he bite anybody in the bar?" "Oh, no, Gran! He just sat and had a glass of red wine. Well, he ordered it, but he didn't drink it. I think he just wanted some company." "Wonder where he stays." "He wouldn't be too likely to tell anyone that." "No," Gran said, thinking about it a moment. "I guess not. Did you like him?" Now that was kind of a hard question. I mulled it over. "I don't know. He was real interesting," I said cautiously.



"I'd surely love to meet him." I wasn't surprised Gran said this because she enjoyed new things almost as much as I did. She wasn't one of those reactionaries who'd decided vam-pires were damned right off the bat. "But I better go to sleep now. I was just waiting for you to come home before I turned out my light." I bent over to give Gran a kiss, and said, "Night night." I half-closed her door on my way out and heard the click of the lamp as she turned it off. My cat, Tina, came from wherever she'd been sleeping to rub against my legs, and I picked her up and cuddled her for a while before putting her out for the night. I glanced at the clock. It was almost two o'clock, and my bed was calling me. My room was right across the hall from Gran's. When I first used this room, after my folks had died, Gran had moved my bedroom furniture from their house so I'd feel more homey. And here it was still, the single bed and vanity in white-painted wood, the small chest of drawers. I turned on my own light and shut the door and began taking off my clothes. I had at least five pair of black shorts and many, many white T-shirts, since those tended to getstained so easily. No telling how many pairs of white socks were rolled up in my drawer. So I didn't have to do the wash tonight. I was too tired for a shower. I did brush my teeth and wash the makeup off my face, slap on some moisturizer, and take the band out of my hair. I crawled into bed in my favorite Mickey Mouse sleep T-shirt, which came almost to my knees. I turned on my side, like I always do, and I relished the silence of the room. Al-most everyone's brain is turned off in the wee hours of the night, and the vibrations are gone, the intrusions do not have to be repelled. With such peace, I only had time to think of the vampire's dark eyes, and then I fell into the deep sleep of exhaustion.

BYLUNCHTIME THE next day I was in my folding alu-minum chaise out in the front yard, getting browner by the second. I was in my favorite white strapless two-piece, and it was a little roomier than last summer, so I was pleased as punch. Then I heard a vehicle coming down the drive, and Jason's black truck with its pink and aqua blazons pulled up to within a yard of my feet. Jason climbed down—did I mention the truck sports those high tires?—to stalk toward me. He was wearing his usual work clothes, a khaki shirt and pants, and he had his sheathed knife clipped to his belt, like most of the county road workers did. Just by the way he walked, I knew he was in a huff. I put my dark glasses on. "Why didn't you tell me you beat up the Rattrays last night?" My brother threw himself into the aluminum yard chair by my chaise. "Where's Gran?" he asked belatedly. "Hanging out the laundry," I said. Gran used the dryer in a pinch, but she really liked hanging the wet clothes out in the sun. Of course the clothesline was in the backyard, where clotheslines should be. "She's fixing country-fried steak and sweet potatoes and green beans she put up last year, for lunch," I added, knowing that would distract Jason a little bit. I hoped Gran stayed out back. I didn't want her to hear this



conversation. "Keep your voice low," I reminded him. "Rene Lenier couldn't wait till I got to work this morning to tell me all about it. He was over to the Rattrays' trailer last night to buy him some weed, and Denise drove up like she wanted to kill someone. Rene said he liked to have gotten killed, she was so mad. It took both Rene and Denise to get Mack into the trailer, and then they took him to the hospital in Monroe." Jason glared at me accusingly. "Did Rene tell you that Mack came after me with a knife?" I asked, deciding attacking was the best way of handling this. I could tell Jason's pique was due in large part to the fact that he had heard about this from someone else. "If Denise told Rene, he didn't mention it to me," Jason said slowly, and I saw his handsome face darken with rage. "He came after you with a knife?" "So I had to defend myself," I said, as if it were matter-of-fact. "And he took your chain." This was all true, if a little skewed. "I came in to tell you," I continued, "but by the time I got back in the bar, you were gone with DeeAnne, and since I was fine, it just didn't seem worth tracking you down. I knew you'd feel obliged to go after him if I told you about the knife," I added diplomatically. There was a lot more truth in that, since Jason dearly loves a fight. "What the hell were you doing out there anyway?" he asked, but he had relaxed, and I knew he was accepting this. "Did you know that, in addition to selling drugs, the Rats are vampire drainers?" Now he was fascinated. "No... so?" "Well, one of my customers last night was a vampire, and they were draining him out in Merlotte's parking lot! I couldn't have that." "There's a vampire here in Bon Temps?" "Yep. Even if you don't want a vampire for your best friend, you can't let trash like the Rats drain them. It's not like siphoning gas out of a car. And they would have left him out in the woods to die." Though the Rats hadn't told me their intentions, that was my bet. Even if they'd put him under cover so he could survive the day, a drained vampire took at least twenty years to recover, at least that's what onehad said onOprah. And that's if another vampire took care of him. "The vampire was in the bar when I was there?" Jason asked, dazzled. "Uh-huh. The dark-haired guy sitting with the Rats." Jason grinned at my epithet for the Rattrays. But he hadn't let go of the night before, yet. "How'd you know he was a vampire?" he asked, but when he looked at me, I could tell he was wishing he had bitten his tongue. "I just knew," I said in my flattest voice. "Right." And we shared a whole unspoken conversation.



"Homulka doesn't have a vampire," Jason said thought-fully. He tilted his face back to catch the sun, and I knew we were off dangerous ground. "True," I agreed. Homulka was the town Bon Temps loved to hate. We'd been rivals in football, basketball, and histor-ical significance for generations. "Neither does Roedale," Gran said from behind us, and Jason and I both jumped. I give Jason credit, he jumps up and gives Gran a hug everytime he sees her. "Gran, you got enough food in the oven for me?" "You and two others," Gran said. Our grandmother smiled up at Jason. She was not blind to his faults (or mine), but she loved him. "I just got a phone call from Everlee Mason. She was telling me you hooked up with DeeAnne last night." "Boy oh boy, can't do anything in this town without get-ting caught," Jason said, but he wasn't really angry. 'That DeeAnne," Gran said warningly as we all started into the house, "she's been pregnant one time I know of. You just take care she doesn't have one of yours, you'll be paying the rest of your life. Course, that may be the only way I get great-grandchildren!" Gran had the food ready on the table, so after Jason hung up his hat we sat down and said grace. Then Gran and Jason began gossiping with each other (though they called it "catching up") about people in our little town and parish. My brother worked for the state, supervising road crews. It seemed to me like Jason's day consisted of driving around in a state pickup, clocking off work, and then driving aroundall night in his own pickup. Rene was on one of the work crews Jason oversaw, and they'd been to high school to-gether. They hung around with Hoyt Fortenberry a lot. "Sookie, I had to replace the hot water heater in the house," Jason said suddenly. He lives in my parents' old house, the one we'd been living in when they died in a flash flood. We lived with Gran after that, but when Jason got through his two years of college and went to work for the state, he moved back into the house, which on paper is half mine. "You need any money on that?" I asked. "Naw, I got it." We both make salaries, but we also have a little income from a fund established when an oil well was sunk on my parents' property. It played out in a few years, but my parents and then Gran made sure the money was invested. It saved Jason and me a lot of struggle, that padding. I don't know how Gran could have raised us if it hadn't been for that money. She was determined not to sell any land, but her own income is not much more than social security. That's one reason I don't get an apartment. If I get groceries when I'm living with her, that's reasonable, to her; but if I buy gro-ceries and bring them to her house and leave them on her table and go home to my house, that's charity and that makes her mad. "What kind did you get?" I asked, just to show interest. He was dying to tell me; Jason's an appliance freak, and he wanted to describe his comparison shopping for a new water heater in detail. I listened with as much attention as I could muster.



And then he interrupted himself. "Hey Sook, you remem-ber Maudette Pickens?" "Sure," I said, surprised. "We graduated in the same class." "Somebody killed Maudette in her apartment last night." Gran and I were riveted. "When?" Grand asked, puzzled that she hadn't heard already. "They just found her this very morning in her bedroom. Her boss tried to call her to find out why she hadn't shown up for work yesterday and today and got no answer, so he rode over and got the manager up, and they unlocked the place. You know she had the apartment across from Dee-Anne's?" Bon Temps had only one bona fide apartment com-plex, a three-building, two-story U-shaped grouping, so we knew exactly where he meant. "She got killed there?" I felt ill. I remembered Maudette clearly. Maudette had had a heavy jaw and a square bottom, pretty black hair and husky shoulders. Maudette had been a plodder, never bright or ambitious. I thought I recalled her working at the Grabbit Kwik, a gas station/convenience store. "Yeah, she'd been working there for at least a year, I guess," Jason confirmed. "How was it done?" My grandmother had that squnched, give-it-to-me-quick look with which nice people ask for bad news. "She had some vampire bites on her—uh—inner thighs," my brother said, looking down at his plate. "But that wasn't what killed her. She was strangled. DeeAnne told me Mau-dette liked to go to that vampire bar in Shreveport when she had a couple of days off, so maybe that's where she got the bites. Might not have beenSookie's vampire." "Maudette was a fang-banger?" I felt queasy, imagining slow, chunky Maudette draped in the exotic black dresses fang-bangers affected. "What's that?" asked Gran. She must have missedSally-Jessy the day the phenomenon was explored. "Men and women that hang around with vampires and enjoy being bitten. Vampire groupies. They don't last too long, I think, because they want to be bitten too much, and sooner or later they get that one bite too many." "But a bite didn't kill Maudette." Gran wanted to be sure she had it straight. "Nope, strangling." Jason had begun finishing his lunch. "Don't you always get gas at the Grabbit?" I asked. "Sure. So do a lot of people." "And didn't you hang around with Maudette some?" Gran asked. "Well, in a way of speaking," Jason said cautiously. I took that to mean he'd bedded Maudette when he couldn't find anyone else.



"I hope the sheriff doesn't want to talk to you," Gran said, shaking her head as if indicating "no" would make it less likely. "What?" Jason was turning red, looking defensive. "You see Maudette in the store all the time when you get your gas, you so-to-speak date her, then she winds up dead in an apartment you're familiar with," I summarized. It wasn't much, but it was something, and there were so few mysterious homicides in Bon Temps that I thought every stone would be turned in its investigation. "I ain't the only one who fills the bill. Plenty of other guys get their gas there, and all of them know Maudette." "Yeah, but in what sense?" Gran asked bluntly. "She wasn't a prostitute, was she? So she will have talked about who she saw." "She just liked to have a good time, she wasn't a pro." It was good of Jason to defend Maudette, considering what I knew of his selfish character. I began to think a little better of my big brother. "She was kinda lonely, I guess," he added. Jason looked at both of us, then, and saw we were sur-prised and touched. "Speaking of prostitutes," he said hastily, "there's one in Monroe specializes in vampires. She keeps a guy standing by with a stake in case one gets carried away. She drinks synthetic blood to keep her blood supply up." That was a pretty definite change of subject, so Gran and I tried to think of a question we could ask without being indecent. "Wonder how much she charges?" I ventured, and when Jason told us the figure he'd heard, we both gasped. Once we got off the topic of Maudette's murder, lunch went about as usual, with Jason looking at his watch and exclaiming that he had to leave just when it was time to do the dishes. But Gran's mind was still running on vampires, I found out. She came into my room later, when I was putting on my makeup to go to work. "How old you reckon the vampire is, the one you met?" "I have no idea, Gran." I was putting on my mascara, looking wide-eyed and trying to hold still so I wouldn't poke myself in the eye, so my voice came out funny, as if I was trying out for a horror movie. "Do you suppose ... he might remember the War?" I didn't need to ask which war. After all, Gran was a charter member of the Descendants of the Glorious Dead. "Could be," I said, turning my face from side to side to make sure my blush was even.



"You think he might come to talk to us about it? We could have a special meeting." "At night," I reminded her. "Oh. Yes, it'd have to be." The Descendants usually met at noon at the library and brought a bag lunch. I thought about it. It would be plain rude to suggest to the vampire that he ought to speak to Gran's club because I'd saved his blood from Drainers, but maybe he would offer if I gave a little hint? I didn't like to, but I'd do it for Gran. "I'll ask him the next time he comes in," I promised. "At least he could come talk to me and maybe I could tape his recollections?" Gran said. I could hear her mind clicking as she thought of what a coup that would be for her. "It would be so interesting to the other club members," she said piously. I stifled an impulse to laugh. "I'll suggest it to him," I said. "We'll see." When I left, Gran was clearly counting her chickens.

Ihadn't thought of Rene Lenier going to Sam with the story of the parking lot fight. Rene'd been a busy bee, though. When I got to work that afternoon, I assumed the agitation I felt in the air was due to Maudette's murder. I found out different. Sam hustled me into the storeroom the minute I came in. He was hopping with anger. He reamed me up one side and down the other. Sam had never been mad with me before, and soon I was on the edge of tears. "And if you think a customer isn't safe, you tell me, andI'll deal with it, not you," he was saying for the sixth time, when I finally realized that Sam had been scared for me. I caught that rolling off him before I clamped down firmly on "hearing" Sam. Listening in to your boss led to disaster. It had never occurred to me to ask Sam—or anyone else— for help. "And if you think someone is being harmed in our parking lot, your next move is to call the police, not step out there yourself like a vigilante," Sam huffed. His fair complection, always ruddy, was redder than ever, and his wiry golden hair looked as if he hadn't combed it. "Okay," I said, trying to keep my voice even and my eyes wide open so the tears wouldn't roll out. "Are you gonna fire me?" "No! No!" he exclaimed, apparently even angrier. "I don't want to lose you!" He gripped my shoulders and gave me a little shake. Then he stood looking at me with wide, crackling blue eyes, and I felt a surge of heat rushing out from him. Touching accelerates my disability, makes it imperative that I hear the person touching. I stared right into his eyes for a long moment, then I remembered myself, and I jumped back as his hands dropped away.

