The seated vampires exchanged bored glances. Pam said, "Like how long are our fangs, and what kind of coffin do we sleep in?" Her voice was laced with con-tempt, and you could tell those were tourist questions that she hated. "No, ma'am," I said. I hoped Bill wouldn't pinch my arm off. I thought I was being calm and courteous. She stared at me with amazement. What the hell was so startling? I was getting a little tired of this. Before Bill could give me any more painful hints, I opened my purse and took out the pictures. "I'd like to know if you've seen either of these women in this bar." I wasn't getting Jason's picture out in front of this female. It would've been like putting a bowl of milk in front of a cat. They looked at the pictures. Bill's face was blank. Eric looked up. "I have been with this one," he said coolly, tap-ping Dawn's picture. "She liked pain." Pam was surprised Eric had answered me, I could tell by her eyebrows. She seemed somehow obligated to follow his example. "I have seen both of them. I have never been with them. This one," she flicked her finger at Maudette's picture, "was a pathetic creature." "Thank you very much, that's all of your time I need to take," I said, and tried to turn to leave. But Bill still held my arm imprisoned. "Bill, are you quite attached to your friend?" Eric asked. It took a second for the meaning to sink in. Eric the Hunk was asking if I could be borrowed. "She is mine," Bill said, but he wasn't roaring it as he had to the nasty vampires from Monroe. Nonetheless, he sounded pretty darn firm. Eric inclined his golden head, but he gave me the once-over again. At least he started with my face. Bill seemed to relax. He bowed to Eric, somehow includ-ing Pam in the gesture, backed away for two steps, finally permitting me to turn my back to the couple. "Gee whiz, what was that about?" I asked in a furious whisper. I'd have a big bruise the next day. "They're older than I am by centuries," Bill said, looking very vampirey. "Is that the pecking order? By age?" "Pecking order," Bill said thoughtfully. "That's not a bad way to put it." He almost laughed. I could tell by the way his lip twitched. "If you had been interested, I would have been obliged to let you go with Eric," he said, after we'd resumed our seats and had a belt from our drinks. "No," I said sharply. "Why didn't you say anything when the fang-bangers came to our table trying to seduce me away from



you?" We weren't operating on the same wave level. Maybe so-cial nuances weren't something vampires cared about. I was going to have to explain something that couldn't really bear much explaining. I made a very unladylike sound out of sheer exasperation. "Okay," I said sharply. "Listen up, Bill! When you came to my house, I had to invite you. When you came here with me, I had to invite you. You haven't asked me out. Lurking in my driveway doesn't count, and asking me to stop by your house and leave a list of contractors doesn't count. So it's always been me asking you. How can I tell you that you have to stay with me, if you want to go? If those girls will let you suck their blood—or that guy, for that matter—then I don't feel I have a right to stand in your way!" "Eric is much better looking than I am," Bill said. "He is more powerful, and I understand sex with him is unforget-table. He is so old he only needs to take a sip to maintain his strength. He almost never kills any more. So, as vampires go, he's a good guy. You could still go with him. He is still looking at you. He would try his glamor on you if you were not with me." "I don't want to go with Eric," I said stubbornly. "I don't want to go with any of the fang-bangers," he said. We sat in silence for a minute or two. "So we're all right," I said obscurely. "Yes." We took a few moments more, thinking this over. "Want another drink?" he asked. "Yes, unless you need to get back." "No, this is fine." He went to the bar. Eric's friend Pam left, and Eric ap-peared to be counting my eyelashes. I tried to keep my gaze on my hands, to indicate modesty. I felt power tweaks kind of flow over me and had an uneasy feeling Eric was trying to influence me. I risked a quick peek, and sure enough he was looking at me expectantly. Was I supposed to pull off my dress? Bark like a dog? Kick Bill in the shins? Shit. Bill came back with our drinks. "He's gonna know I'm not normal," I said grimly. Bill didn't seem to need an explanation. "He's breaking the rules just attempting to glamorize you after I've told him you're mine," Bill said. He sounded pretty pissed off. His voice didn't get hotter and hotter like mine would have, but colder and colder. "You seem to be telling everyone that," I muttered. With-out doing anything about it, I added silently.



"It's vampire tradition," Bill explained again. "If I pro-nounce you mine, no one else can try to feed on you." "Feed on me, that's a delightful phrase," I said sharply, and Bill actually had an expression of exasperation for all of two seconds. "I'm protecting you," he said, his voice not quite as neutral as usual. "Had it occurred to you that I—" And I stopped short. I closed my eyes. I counted to ten. When I ventured a look at Bill, his eyes were fixed on my face, unblinking. I could practically hear the gears mesh. "You—don't need protection?" he guessed softly. "You are protecting—me?" I didn't say anything. I can do that. But he took the back of my skull in his hand. He turned my head to him as though I were a puppet. (This was getting to be an annoying habit of his.) He looked so hard into my eyes that I thought I had tunnels burned into my brain. I pursed my lips and blew into his face. "Boo," I said. I was very uncomfortable. I glanced at the people in the bar, letting my guard down, listening. "Boring," I told him. "These people are boring." "Are they, Sookie? What are they thinking?" It was a relief to hear his voice, no matter that his voice was a little odd. "Sex, sex, sex." And that was true. Every single person in that bar had sex on the brain. Even the tourists, who mostly weren't thinking about having sex with the vampires them-selves, but were thinking about the fang-bangers having sex with the vampires. "What are you thinking about, Sookie?" "Not sex," I answered promptly and truthfully. I'd just gotten an unpleasant shock. "Is that so?" "I was thinking about the chances of us getting out of here without any trouble." "Why were you thinking about that?" "Because one of the tourists is a cop in disguise, and he just went to the bathroom, and he knows that a vampire is in there, sucking on the neck of a fang-banger. He's already called the police on his little radio." "Out," he said smoothly, and we were out of the booth swiftly and moving for the door. Pam had vanished, but as we passed Eric's table, Bill gave him some sign. Just as smoothly, Eric eased from his seat and rose to his magnifi-cent height, his stride so much longer than ours that he passed out the door first, taking the arm of the bouncer and propelling her outside with us. As we were about to go out the door, I remembered the bartender, Long Shadow, had answered my questions will-ingly, so I turned and jabbed my finger in the direction of the door, unmistakably telling him to leave. He looked as alarmed as a vampire can look, and as Bill yanked me through the double doors, he was throwing down his towel. Outside, Eric was waiting outside by his car—a Corvette, naturally.



"There's going to be a raid," Bill said. "How do you know?" Bill stuck on that one. "Me," I said, getting him off the hook. Eric's wide blue eyes shone even in the gloom of the park-ing lot. I was going to have to explain. "I read a policeman's mind," I muttered. I snuck a look to see how Eric was taking this, and he was staring at me the same way the Monroe vampires had. Thoughtful. Hungry. "That's interesting," he said. "I had a psychic once. It was incredible." "Did the psychic think so?" My voice was tarter than I'd meant it to be. I could hear Bill's indrawn breath. Eric laughed. "For a while," he answered ambiguously. We heard sirens in the distance, and without further words Eric and the bouncer slid into his car and were gone into thenight, the car seeming quieter than others' cars, somehow. Bill and I buckled up hastily, and we were leaving the park-ing lot by one exit just as the police were coming in by another. They had their vampire van with them, a special prisoner transport with silver bars. It was driven by two cops who were of the fanged persuasion, and they sprang out of their van and reached the club door with a speed that ren-dered them just blurs on my human vision. We had driven a few blocks when suddenly Bill pulled into the parking lot of yet another darkened strip mall. "What—?" I began, but got no further. Bill had undipped my seat belt, moved the seat back, and grabbed me before I had finished my sentence. Frightened that he was angry, I pushed against him at first, but I might as well have been heaving against a tree. Then his mouth located mine, and I knew what he was. Oh, boy, could he kiss. We might have problems com-municating on some levels, but this wasn't one of them. We had a great time for maybe five minutes. I felt all the right things moving through my body in waves. Despite the awk-wardness of being in the front seat of a car, I managed to be comfortable, mostly because he was so strong and consid-erate. I nipped his skin with my teeth. He made a sound like a growl. "Sookie!" His voice was ragged. I moved away from him, maybe half an inch. "If you do that any more I'll have you whether you want to be had or not," he said, and I could tell he meant it. "You don't want to," I said finally, trying not to make it a question. "Oh, yes, I want to." and he grabbed my hand and showed me. Suddenly, there was a bright rotating light beside us. "The police," I said. I could see a figure get out of



the patrol car and start toward Bill's window. "Don't let him know you're a vampire, Bill," I said hastily, fearing fallout from the Fangtasia raid. Though most police forces loved having vampires join them on the job, there was a lot of prejudice against vampires on the street, especially as part of a mixed couple. The policeman's heavy hand rapped on the window. Bill turned on the motor, hit the button that lowered the window. But he was silent, and I realized his fangs had not retracted. If he opened his mouth, it would be really obvious he was a vampire. "Hello, officer," I said. "Good evening," the man said, politely enough. He bent to look in the window. "You two know all the shops here are closed, right?" "Yes, sir." "Now, I can tell you been messing around a little, and I got nothing against that, but you two need to go home and do this kind of thing." "We will." I nodded eagerly, and Bill managed a stiff in-clination of his head. "We're raiding a bar a few blocks back," the patrolman said casually. I could see only a little of his face, but he seemed burly and middle-aged. "You two coming from there, by any chance?" "No," I said. "Vampire bar," the cop remarked. "Nope. Not us." "Let me just shine this light on your neck, miss, if you don't mind." "Not at all." And by golly, he shone that old flashlight on my neck and then on Bill's. "Okay, just checking. You two move on now." "Yes, we will." Bill's nod was even more curt. While the patrolman waited, I slid back over to my side and clipped my seat belt, and Bill put the car in gear and backed up. Bill was just infuriated. All the way home he kept a sullen (I guess) silence, whereas I was inclined to view the whole thing as funny. I was cheerful at finding Bill wasn't indifferent to my per-sonal attractions, such as they were. I began to hope that someday he would want to kiss me again, maybe longer and harder, and maybe even—we could go further? I was trying not to get my hopes up. Actually, there was a thing or two that Bill didn't know about me, that no one knew, and I was very careful to try to keep my expectations



modest. When he got me back to Gran's, he came around and opened my door, which made me raise my eyebrows; but I am not one to stop a courteous act. I assumed Bill did realize I had functioning arms and the mental ability to figure out the door-opening mechanism. When I stepped out, he backed up. I was hurt. He didn't want to kiss me again; he was re-gretting our earlier episode. Probably pining after that damn Pam. Or maybe even Long Shadow. I was beginning to see that the ability to have sex for several centuries leaves room for lots of experimentation. Would a telepath be so bad to add to his list? I kind of hunched my shoulders together and wrapped my arms across my chest. "Are you cold?" Bill asked instantly, putting his arm around me. But it was the physical equivalent of a coat, he seemed to be trying to stay as far away from me as the arm made possible. "I am sorry I have pestered you. I won't ask you for any more," I said, keeping my voice even. Even as I spoke I realized that Gran hadn't set up a date for Bill to speak to the Descendants, but she and Bill would just have to work that out. He stood still. Finally he said, "You—are—incredibly— naive." And he didn't even add that codicil about shrewd-ness, like he had earlier. "Well," I said blankly. "I am?" "Or maybe one of God's fools," he said, and that sounded a lot less pleasant, like Quasimodo or something. "I guess," I said tartly, "you'll just have to find out." "It had better be me that finds out," he said darkly, which I didn't understand at all. He walked me up to the door, and I was sure hoping for another kiss, but he gave me a little peck on the forehead. "Good night, Sookie," he whispered. I rested my cheek against his for a moment. "Thanks for taking me," I said, and moved away quickly before he thought I was asking for something else. ."I'm not calling you again." And before I could lose my determination, I slipped into the dark house and shut the door in Bill's face.

Chapter5

I CERTAINLY HAD a lot to think about the next couple of days. For someone who was always hoarding new things to keep from being bored, I'd stored enough up to last me for weeks. The people in Fangtasia, alone, were food for examination, to say nothing of the vampires. From longing to meet one vampire, now I'd met more than I cared to know.



A lot of men from Bon Temps and the surrounding area had been called in to the police station to answer a few ques-tions about Dawn Green and her habits. Embarrassingly enough, Detective Bellefleur took to hanging around the bar on his off-hours, never drinking more alcohol than one beer, but observing everything that took place around him. Since Merlotte's was not exactly a hotbed of illegal activity, no one minded too much once they got used to Andy being there. He always seemed to pick a table in my section. And he began to play a silent game with me. When I came to his table, he'd be thinking something provocative, trying to get me to say something. He didn't seem to understand how indecent that was. The provocation was the point, not the insult. He just wanted me to read his mind again. I couldn't figure out why. Then, maybe the fifth or sixth time I had to get him something, I guess it was a Diet Coke, he pictured me cavorting with my brother. I was so nervous when I went to the table (knowing to expect something, but not knowing exactly what) that I was beyond getting angry and into the realm of tears. It reminded me of the less sophisticated tormenting I'd taken when I was in grade school. Andy had looked up with an expectant face, and when he saw tears an amazing range of things ran across his face in quick succession: triumph, chagrin, then scalding shame. I poured the damn coke down his shirt. I walked right past the bar and out the back door. "What's the matter?" Sam asked sharply. He was right on my heels. I shook my head, not wanting to explain, and pulled an aging tissue out of my shorts pocket to mop my eyes with. "Has he been saying ugly things to you?" Sam asked, his voice lower and angrier. "He's been thinking them," I said helplessly, "to get a rise out of me. He knows." "Son of a bitch," Sam said, which almost shocked me back to normal. Sam didn't curse. Once I started crying, it seemed like I couldn't stop. I was getting my crying time done for a number of little unhappi-nesses. "Just go on back in," I said, embarrassed at my water-works. "I'll be okay in just a minute." I heard the back door of the bar open and shut. I figured Sam had taken me at my word. But instead, Andy Bellefleur said, "I apologize, Sookie." "That's Miss Stackhouse to you, Andy Bellefleur," I said. "It seems to me like you better be out finding who killed Maudette and Dawn instead of playing nasty mind games with me." I turned around and looked at the policeman. He was look-ing horribly embarrassed. I thought he was sincere in his shame. Sam was swinging his arms, full of the energy of anger. "Bellefleur, sit in someone else's area if you come back," he said, but his voice held a lot of suppressed violence. Andy looked at Sam. He was twice as thick in the body, taller by two inches. But I would have put my money on Sam at that moment, and it seemed Andy didn't want to risk the challenge either, if only from good sense. He just nodded and walked across the parking



lot to his car. The sun glinted on the blond highlights in his brown hair. "Sookie, I'm sorry," Sam said. "Not your fault." "Do you want to take some time off? We're not so busy today." "Nope. I'll finish my shift." Charlsie Tooten was getting into the swing of things, but I wouldn't feel good about leav-ing. It was Arlene's day off. We went back into the bar, and though several people looked at us curiously as we entered, no one asked us what had happened. There was only one couple sitting in my area, and they were busy eating and had glasses full of liquid, so they wouldn't be needing me. I began putting up wine-glasses. Sam leaned against the workspace beside me. "Is it true that Bill Compton is going to speak to the De-scendants of the Glorious Dead tonight?" "According to my grandmother." "Are you going?" "I hadn't planned on it." I didn't want to see Bill until he called me and made an appointment to see me. Sam didn't say anything else then, but later in the after-noon, as I was retrieving my purse from his office, he came in and fiddled with some papers on his desk. I'd pulled out my brush and was trying to get a tangle out of my ponytail. From the way Sam dithered around, it seemed apparent that he wanted to talk to me, and I felt a wave of exasperation at the indirection men seemed to take. Like Andy Bellefleur. He could just have asked me about my disability, instead of playing games with me. Like Bill. He could just have stated his intentions, instead of this strange hot-cold thing. "So?" I said, more sharply than I'd intended. He flushed under my gaze. "I wondered if you'd like to go to the Descendants meeting with me and have a cup of coffee afterward." I was flabbergasted. My brush stopped in mid swoop. Anumber of things ran through my mind, the feel of his hand when I'd held it in front of Dawn Green's duplex, the wall I'd met in his mind, the unwisdom of dating your boss. "Sure," I said, after a notable pause. He seemed to exhale. "Good. Then I'll pick you up at your house at seven-twenty or so. The meeting starts at seven-thirty." "Okay. I'll see you then."

