The greatest challenge was powering 
both of them. There must be trade-
offs, he had said. In order to mount a 
weapon of mundicidal means, 
shielding capabilities would have to 
be downgraded to a rudimentary 
level. Power, Bevel had said, was not 
infinite, even on a station this size, 
fueled by the largest hypermatter 
reactor ever built. However, given the 
surface-to-vacuum defenses, the 
number of fighters, turbolaser 
batteries, charged-particle blasters, 
magnetic railguns, proton torpedo 
banks, ion cannons, and a host of 
other protective devices, no naval ship 
of any size would be even a remote 
threat. A fleet of Imperial-class Star 
Destroyers?even a fleet of Super-
class Star Destroyers, should such a 
thing ever exist?would offer no real 
danger to the battle station once it was 
fully operational. Given all that, a 
shield system that was less than 
perfect at times wasn't such a high 
price to pay for the ability to vaporize 
a planet.
 Once the station was fully online, 
then the Tarkin Doctrine?officially 
recognized by the Empire and named 
as such?would hold sway throughout 
the known worlds. The Tarkin 
Doctrine was as simple as it was 
effective: fear would keep the galaxy 
in line. Once the power of this "Death 
Star" had been demonstrated, its very 
existence would be enough to 
maintain peace. The Rebel Alliance 
wouldn't dare risk facing it. An 
insurgent who would gladly accept his 
own death in the cause would quail at 
the thought of his entire homeworld 
being turned to incandescent plasma.
 Tarkin turned away from the 
viewport. Already there had been 
sabotage and setbacks, and more 
would occur; it was inevitable on a 
project this size. Slaves had tried to 
escape, droids had malfunctioned, and 
men who should have known better 
had thought to gain personal power 
through political machinations. In 
addition to these annoyances, Darth 
Vader, the Emperor's pet, was wont to 
show up unannounced now and again 
to lay his heavy hand upon the whole 
process. Vader, unfortunately, was 
beyond Tarkin's command, even 
though, as the first of the new Grand 
Moffs, he was a man whose whim 
was law in the entire Outer Rim 
Territories. It was true that Vader's 
own manner of function was 
essentially the same philosophy as the 
Tarkin Doctrine, albeit on a smaller 
scale; still, it was . . .  disquieting . . .  
to see the man cause an admiral or a 
general across the room fall over with 
a mere gesture as if shot. Vader called 
it the Force, that mystical power that 
had supposedly been unique to the 
Jedi and the Sith. Tarkin had seen him 
knock blaster bolts from the air with 
his lightsaber?or even, at times, with 
naught but his black gauntlets?with 
no more effort than swatting 
flitterflies. Vader was something of a 
conundrum: the Jedi were extinct, so 
it was said, as were the Sith, and yet 
the man in black possessed one of the 
signature weapons favored by both 
groups, along with the skill to use it. 
Puzzling. Tarkin had heard it said that 
Vader was more machine than man 
underneath that armor. He knew that 
the cyborg droid General Grievous 
had been able to wield four 
lightsabers at once, so perhaps it was 
not so surprising after all that Vader 
was adept with one. No one could say 
for sure, of course, since no one, 
except possibly the Emperor himself, 
knew the identity of the face behind 
the black helmet's visor.
 Tarkin, however, had his own theory 
about the Dark Lord's former life, 
based on information he'd gleaned 
from privileged files and 
conversations, as well as from public 
records. He'd heard about the 
supposed death of Anakin Skywalker, 
the Jedi war hero, on Mustafar, and 
knew that no body had been found. Of 
course, it might easily have 
disappeared in one of the white-hot 
lava rivers . . .  but was it really just a 
coincidence that Darth Vader, encased 
in a life-support suit and 
demonstrating a mastery of the Force 
supposedly only attained by the most 
powerful of Jedi, had become the 
Emperor's new favorite immediately 
after Skywalker left the scene?
 Tarkin shrugged. Whoever or 
whatever Vader was, or had become, 
he was not without great personal 
power, and it was well known that he 
had the Emperor's trust. But that 
didn't matter. All that mattered to 
Tarkin was that the construction of 
the battle station was proceeding 
apace. Should Vader or anyone else 
attempt to obstruct this, they would be 
dealt with, summarily and completely. 
His ultimate dream must be realized. 
Nothing else was important, 
compared with that.
 Nothing.



3




IMPERIAL PRISONER TRANSPORT SHIP 
GLTB-3181, IN SUBORBITAL 
TRAJECTORY FOR PROCESSING 
STATION NINE, DEATH STAR
 
 Teela Kaarz sat in her assigned seat, 
staring at the blank hull next to her. 
The shuttle had no viewports in the 
passenger area, so there wasn't much 
to see, save other prisoners. There 
were maybe three hundred such?
males and females of perhaps a dozen 
different humanoid species, packed 
into the transport in tight rows. The 
smell of various body odors was sour 
and potent. She saw no other 
Mirialans such as herself. She knew 
there were some from her homeworld 
down on the hellacious world of 
Despayre?at least, there were if they 
were still alive. The prison planet was 
rife with danger?wild animals, 
poison plants, violent storms, and 
extremes of heat and cold due to an 
erratic orbit. Not a place to which 
anybody of her species, or most 
others, would voluntarily go, unless 
they had a most serious death wish.
 Teela didn't harbor a death wish, but 
it mattered little now what she 
wished. Her right to wish, along with 
just about every other right, had been 
taken from her. She was no longer a 
galactic citizen. As of a standard year 
ago, she was a criminal and a 
prisoner.
 Her "crime" had been simply to back 
the wrong political candidate in a 
planetwide election on her world. The 
Emperor had decided that the man 
running for office was a traitor, as 
were his most influential supporters. 
He had thus ordered a score of well-
to-do Mirialans to be rounded up, 
given a speedy "trial," and convicted 
of treason. Given the public outrage 
over this travesty of justice, it had 
been deemed politically inexpedient 
to execute them then and there, and so 
Teela and her compatriots had been 
shipped off to die on a world many 
light-years away?a world so 
dangerous and inhospitable that it 
almost seemed to have been designed 
for the sole purpose of being a prison 
planet.
 It had been quite a shock to be 
among those so chosen. In the span of 
a single planetary rotation, she had 
gone from being an influential and 
well-to-do professional to a criminal, 
and had existed in the latter state for a 
standard year. She had been lucky?
and astonished?to have survived that 
long. She had been an architect, 
specializing in encapsulated arcology 
design?not a profession that 
prepared one for survival on a world 
where every other animal slinking 
around considered you prey, or every 
other plant had thorns from which a 
tiny scratch could cause agonizing 
pain before its poison killed you.
 Before her fall from grace she had 
been near the top of her game, a 
much-sought-after professional who 
had designed the Ralthhok 
Encapsulation on Corellia and the 
Blackstar wheelworld in the Sagar 
system. She had been feted and 
lionized, a guest of monarchs and 
Senators, heads of industry and 
starfleet admirals. She had thought 
nothing of taking an atmo-skimmer 
halfway around Mirial to dine with 
friends on different continents for 
each meal.
 Now just having a dinner that didn't 
bite back was a luxury.
 She had been lucky, but her survival 
hadn't been entirely due to luck. Her 
father had been fond of the outdoors, 
and as a young girl she had gone 
camping with him frequently. He had 
taught her woodcraft, and while the 
plants and animals on the prison 
world Despayre were different from 
those on Mirial?to say the least?the 
principles of dealing with them were 
the same. If it had teeth and claws, it 
was best to avoid it. If it had thorns or 
serrated edges, it was not a good idea 
to stray too close. One kept one's 
awareness firmly in the here and now 
and did not indulge in the luxury of 
daydreams and reverie unless one was 
safely barricaded behind makeshift 
walls constructed of cast-off 
battleplate or jury-rigged fields. And 
it was a good idea not to let one's 
guard drop even then, because there 
were predators inside the compounds 
as well as out; predators with two legs 
instead of four or six, but nonetheless 
deadly.
 One year. And until this morning, 
there had been no reason for her to 
believe she would ever leave 
Despayre, however much time she 
might have left to live. But when 
Imperial Guards landed outside the 
makeshift shantytown the prisoners 
had named Dungeontown, the rumor 
had quickly spread. There was a 
project in orbit, the word was, and 
they needed more labor.
 "I hear they got twen'y t'ousand 
Wookiee slaves workin' this t'ing," the 
man sitting to her right said. He was 
talking to the prisoner on his right, 
and not Teela, but as close as he was, 
she'd have to be deaf to miss the 
conversation. The prisoner to her right 
was a Bakuran; coarse, and convicted 
of multiple crimes, according to the 
bragging he'd been doing to their 
mutual seatmate: robbery, gun-
running, assault, murder. He smelled 
like slime mold.
 "That right?" The prisoner seated 
one away from Teela was a Brigian, a 
tall, purple-skinned humanoid whom 
Teela had seen in Dungeontown a few 
times. The only Brigian in their town, 
she had heard. He was soft-spoken 
when he answered the Bakuran, but 
she'd also heard that he had been an 
assassin good enough with his hands 
that he seldom needed a weapon. 
There was a story that he had once 
killed a virevol?a kind of wolf-sized, 
saber-toothed rat found only on 
Despayre?with nothing more than a 
stick. And then cooked and eaten it.
 Thieves and murderers. Pleasant 
company for a woman who had, until 
she had been arrested for a poor 
political stance, never gotten so much 
as a skytraffic ticket. Not that she had 
made that knowledge public. The 
more dangerous criminals in 
Dungeontown thought you were, the 
greater the chance they would leave 
you be. When anybody asked her 
what her crime had been, Teela 
always just smiled. That tended to 
make the questioner think twice about 
whatever his intentions might be 
toward her.
 "Yar," the Bakuran said. "Half a 
million droids, plus a load o' 
construction bots?extruders, shapers, 
benders, like that, too. Big sucker they 
be buildin', whatever t' kark it is."
 The purple humanoid shrugged. "Die 
on the planet, die in space. No 
matter."
 The transport slowed, then stopped. 
After a moment there was a clank! 
that vibrated though the ship.
 "Sounds like a ramp just locked on," 
the Brigian said. "Looks like 
wherever we're going, we're there."
 The Bakuran turned to look at Teela, 
giving her a long up-and-down leer, 
then a toothy grin. "Wouldn't mind a 
bunkmate, if space b' tight," he said. 
"You'll do."
 "Last 'bunkmate' I had accidentally 
died in his sleep one night," Teela 
said. She smiled.
 The Bakuran blinked. "Yar?"
 She didn't say anything further. She 
just kept smiling.
 The Bakuran's grin faded.
 A guard appeared. "Everybody up 
and single-file," he said.
 The Brigian was closest to the aisle, 
the Bakuran behind him, and Teela 
behind the Bakuran. He kept glancing 
back at her, quick and nervous looks, 
as they filed out of the ship and into 
the sinuous tube of the pressurized 
ramp.
 At the entrance to a huge and cold 
assembly area, Teela saw there were 
thousands of other prisoners entering 
through scores of ramps connected to 
other transports. She could smell the 
perspiration and fear from the 
prisoners, mixed with the stale, 
metallic tang of recycled air. Guards 
stationed at scanners monitored each 
incoming line. As each prisoner 
passed through a scanner, there 
sounded a musical tone.
 Reading their implants, she guessed. 
Most of the notes were the same, but 
now and again a different tone would 
sound, a full step lower, and the 
prisoners connected to them would be 
separated from the others and directed 
away from the main body toward a 
stairway to a lower level. Maybe one 
in fifty, she figured.
 Who were they? she wondered. 
Rejects? Culls? People bound for a 
one-way trip out the nearest air lock?
 When Teela passed the scanner's 
arch, the tone emitted was the lower 
one. She felt her heart race faster, her 
breath catch, as the guard brusquely 
ordered her to step out of the line.
 Whatever that sound meant for those 
it selected, she was apparently about 
to find out.



4




THE SOFT HEART CANTINA, SOUTHERN 
UNDERGROUND, GRID 19, IMPERIAL 
CITY, CORUSCANT SECTOR, CORE 
WORLDS
 
 "Should I break their skulls?" Rodo 
asked.
 Memah Roothes said, "No. Just 
throw 'em out."
 "You're sure? I don't mind."
 "Much as I admire a man who 
enjoys his work, I'm asking you to try 
to curb your enthusiasm."
 "You're the boss."
 From behind the bar, where she 
occasionally took a turn mixing 
drinks, the owner of the Soft Heart 
Cantina watched as Rodo, the pub's 
peacekeeper, went to attend to the off-
duty and getting-progressively-louder 
customers. That there were two 
Imperial stormtroopers soused and 
gearing themselves up for a fight 
didn't worry her. Rodo?if he had 
another name, nobody she knew had 
ever heard it?was one of the biggest 
humans she had ever seen. Born and 
raised on Ragith III, a descendant of 
human colonists who had been 
genetically bred and selected for 
generations to adapt to the one-and-a-
half standard-g environment, Rodo, at 
over two meters and 110 kilos, was 
not a man you wanted to have mad at 
you. Somebody once parked a 
landspeeder in his spot on the street 
outside the cantina. Rodo had 
considered this an insult, and he had 
been direct in dealing with it.
 Seeing a vehicle picked up and 
turned over without help makes an 
impression?people didn't park in 
Rodo's spot anymore. He was also 
extremely fast and very, very good at 
some weird kind of martial art, which 
he could use to tie a drunk and 
belligerent patron into a knot faster 
than you could call the Imperial cools 
to come and haul the problem away.
 Rodo's presence was why things 
tended to stay pretty quiet in the 
cantina, even on a payday like 
tonight. When somebody got too loud 
or combative, usually Rodo's arrival 
at the table was enough to solve the 
problem.
 Usually, but not always . . .  
 Memah turned to finish a drink 
order. She saw?out of the corner of 
her eye?a human male, a spacer by 
his garments, gazing dreamily at her, 
chin supported by one hand as he 
leaned over his drink. She gave no 
acknowledgment of his admiration. A 
Rutian Twi'lek from Ryloth, with teal 
skin that seemed to glow under the 
fullspec lights, she was used to such 
looks. Her skin, in both color and 
tone, was one of her best features, 
which she tended to showcase by 
wearing short and sleeveless dresses.
 She knew that, to most humanoid 
races, she was startlingly beautiful; 
even her lekku, the two large, fleshy 
tendrils that hung about her shoulders 
instead of human hair, seemed to have 
an erotic attraction for humans. And 
she was fit enough, due to a daily 
swimming and zero-g workout 
regimen, although it always seemed to 
her that she could stand to lose a kilo 
from her hips.
 Memah had managed this place for 
two years, and owned it for two more, 
before the galaxy had gone crazy. Of 
course, war was good for business in 
a cantina. Beings about to ship off to 
battle in the middle of nowhere on 
some backrocket planet knew they 
wouldn't be relaxing in a place like 
hers the few times they weren't 
blasting Rebels or droids. This tended 
to promote a certain to-vac-with-
tomorrow attitude, which translated 
into considerable profits for her.
 The Heart was crowded, and it took 
Rodo a minute to work his way to the 
would-be fighters, who were at a two-
seat table near the east wall. One of 
them was on his feet and the other 
rising when the big bouncer arrived. 
He was a head taller and nearly as 
wide as both of them put together. He 
eclipsed the light, and both men 
looked up to see what was casting 
such a gigantic shadow.
 Memah grinned again. There was no 
way she could hear what Rodo was 
saying to them. The place was noisy 
with conversation and laughter, the 
clink of glasses toasting, the scrape of 
chair legs on the hard floor. She had 
two more tenders working the bar, 
both busily mixing drinks and 
drawing down the taps. It wasn't a 
quiet environment. But she knew 
essentially what the big man was 
telling the two troopers. They had 
disturbed the spirit of the Heart, and 
they would have to leave?now.
 If they were wise, they'd smile and 
nod and hustle themselves to the door. 
If they were stupid, they'd argue with 
Rodo. If they were really stupid, one 
or both would decide that how they 
behaved wasn't any of the 
peacekeeper's business, and they'd be 
happy to demonstrate their Imperial 
combat training to him, thank-you-
very-milking-much!
 Rodo's response was always based 
on their attitude. Play nice, and they 
could come back tomorrow and start 
fresh, with no hard feelings. It went 
on a sliding scale from there. In this 
case, the two must have decided that 
the enforcer wasn't as tough as he 
looked, and worth at least a few 
choice words, probably concerning 
his parents or siblings and his 
immoral relationships with them.
 Before either trooper could do or say 
anything else, Rodo grabbed each one 
by the shirtfront, moving incredibly 
fast for such a big man, and, in an 
amazing display of raw strength, 
lifted both clear of the floor and 
banged their heads together. If they 
weren't unconscious after that, they 
were certainly stunned enough to 
cease hostilities. Holding them thus, 
Rodo walked toward the door, as if 
doing so was no more effort than 
carrying two large steins of ale.
 It didn't take him long to achieve the 
exit?everybody between him and the 
door moved with great alacrity, 
clearing a broad and empty path. The 
room went almost quiet as the door 
hissed open and Rodo tossed the two 
into the street.
 When the door hissed shut, the noise 
level returned to normal, and Memah 
went back to her drink order. Nobody 
was hurt, and so there was no need to 
worry about the authorities. And if the 
troops were foolish enough to come 
back with others like them, seeking to 
exploit their Imperial status . . .  well, 
there wasn't an overabundance of 
support down-levels for such 
officiousness.
 Memah sighed. When she'd first 
started in this line of work, 
waitressing in a dive deep in 
Gnarlytown called Villynay's, most of 
the Imperial troops had still been 
clones, and every one of them had 
been uniformly polite and easygoing. 
It was true that, after a bit too much 
ferment, they could get a tad 
boisterous, but they'd never been a 
problem, and had also never been at 
all hesitant in helping to street anyone 
who was. She'd heard that they'd all 
been programmed, somehow, to only 
show hostility toward the enemy. 
Whatever the reason, the clones had 
been a pleasure to serve.
 Well, that was then and this was 
now. Maybe she was looking at the 
past through rose-colored droptacs, 
but it seemed to her that a lot had 
changed. Now a night when Rodo 
didn't have to eject a few obstreperous 
drunks was a night to remember.
 As she put together a Bantha Blaster, 
stirring in the ingredients, Memah 
noticed another pair of customers. 
They weren't causing any ruckus; if 
anything, they were too quiet. 
Humans, a male and a female, they 
were, like much of the crowd this 
time of the evening. Both were 
dressed in nondescript black 
coveralls. They nursed mugs of 
membrosia and sat facing each other 
at a two-seat table in the corner, from 
which they seemed, without being 
obvious about it, to be watching the 
room.
 And even though she never caught 
them staring directly her way, Memah 
got the distinct feeling that they were 
particularly interested in her.
 Rodo arrived back at the bar like a 
heavy-gravity crawler docking. He 
scanned the room, looking for more 
trouble. None seemed to be in the 
offing at the moment.
 Memah finished the Blaster and put 
it on the bar. "Ell-Nine, order up!"
 The new server droid, a trash-can-
sized one on wheels whose model she 
never could remember, rolled to the 
bar. "Got it, boss," it chirped. It 
grabbed the tray with extendible arms, 
anchored it to the magnetic plate atop 
its "head," and took off to deliver the 
drinks.
 Memah drifted down to the other 
end of the bar. "Rodo, you see the two 
in black in the corner?"
 Rodo didn't look at the pair, nor 
directly at her. "Yep."
 "Know who they are?"
 "Not who. Haven't seen 'em in here 
before. Got a good idea what, 
though."
 There was a long pause that Memah 
finally broke. "You want to finish that 
thought and educate me here?"
 He cracked a small smile. Rodo 
liked her, though he'd never made a 
move on her, and she knew he never 
would. "Imperial Intelligence ops."
 She frowned, surprised. What would 
a couple of Eyes be doing in her 
place? She ran a workingbeing's bar, 
and there wasn't much likelihood of 
any high-level skulduggery or spying 
being done here. This was the 
Southern Underground, after all; most 
underdwellers couldn't even spell 
espionage, much less engage in it.
 "You sure?"
 "Pretty much. They got the look. 
You want, I can poke around some, 
check 'em out."
 She shook her head. "No. Don't stir 
up trouble we don't need. Just keep an 
eye on them."
 Rodo settled back. "That's what you 
pay me for, Boss Lady."



5




OFFICERS' BARRACKS, ISD STEEL 
TALON, HORUZ SYSTEM
 
 Master Chief Petty Officer Tenn 
Graneet rolled out of his sleep rack 
and put his bare feet onto the cold 
metal deck. That woke him up fast 
enough. Really ought to get a rug to 
put down there. He'd been meaning to 
do it since he'd been assigned to the 
ship, eight weeks ago, but other things 
kept taking priority, and neither S'ran 
Droot nor Velvalee, the other CPOs 
who shared the cabin, seemed 
bothered by it. Of course Droot's feet 
were more like hooves, and Velvalee 
was used to temperatures a lot 
colder?the blasted floor might feel 
warm to his feet, for all Tenn knew. 
Those two were on graveyard shift 
this week, so they'd be heading back 
to the cabin about the time he got to 
his post.
 Tenn mentally shrugged. Someday 
he'd get around to it. Maybe cozy up 
to that Alderaan woman who did 
knitting when off duty, get her to 
make him enough of a synthwool 
carpet to cover the deck?it wouldn't 
take all that much. He always could 
sweet-talk a fem into doing all kinds 
of things for him.
 He padded down the hall to the 
refresher, took a quick sonic shower, 
splashed depil on his stubble, and 
wiped it clean. Then, wrapped in a 
towel, he went back to don the 
uniform of the day.
 Tenn Graneet was past fifty, but he 
was in very good shape for a man his 
age. He had a few unrevised scars 
from various battles when his station 
had been hit by enemy fire, or from 
when something had gone wrong and 
blown up, and a couple from cantina 
rumbles when he'd been slow to get 
out of the way of a broken bottle or 
vibroblade. Still, he was lean and 
muscular, and he could keep up with 
grunts half his age, though not as 
easily as he used to. The days when 
he could party all night and then work 
a full shift the next day were past, 
true, but on the obstacle course even 
the newbies knew enough to not get in 
front of him unless they wanted to get 
run over. It was a point of pride that, 
even after more than thirty years in 
the navy, nobody in Tenn Graneet's 
gunnery crew could outdrink, 
outfight, or outwomanize him.
 He picked out his oldest uniform 
clothes, the light gray faded to the 
color of ash, and slipped into them. 
They were going to get dirty and 
smelly anyway today, so no point in 
messing up new ones. Word from 
uplevels was there was going to be 
another surprise battle drill around 
midshift. The Port Heavy Blaster 
Station CO, Captain Nast Hoberd, 
was a drinking buddy with Lieutenant 
Colonel Luah, who was the admiral's 
assistant, and as a result the PHBS 
always got the heads-up when a drill 
or inspection was about to be sprung. 
The captain wanted his unit to look 
good, and since they always knew in 
advance when it counted, they always 
did look good. White-glove a surface 
in any of the six turbolaser turrets or 
two heavy ion cannon turrets, and 
there wouldn't be a speck of dirt. You 
could eat off the floor in Fire Control 
on inspection days. Light the battle 
alarms, and the port battery was the 
first to report battle-ready. Every 
time.
 Rumor was that Hoberd was up for 
major, and his, unit's pretty-much-
spotless performance during every 
drill and inspection didn't hurt his 
chances any. Not that the blaster crew 
had any slouches on it. You didn't get 
to shoot the big guns unless you had 
plenty of practice shooting the little 
ones, and anybody who couldn't pull 
his weight, Tenn got rid of fast 
enough to leave friction burns. He had 
his own reputation to keep up. CPO 
Tenn Graneet was the best gunnery 
chief in this being's navy. If 
somebody gave them a target and it 
could possibly be hit, his crew would 
hit it, sure as there were little green 
beings living on Crystan V.
 Dressed, Tenn looked at himself in 
the mirror. A face that was every 
centimeter the grizzled old navy chief 
looked back at him. He grunted. He'd 
joined the Imperial Navy before it 
was the Imperial Navy, and he 
expected to die at his post. That was 
fine by him. A lifetime of military 
service wasn't a bad life at all, as far 
as he was concerned. He left his 
quarters and headed into the hall.
 The Steel Talon was the ninth ship 
upon which he'd served; on the last 
four of them his duty had been that of 
a gunnery chief. An Imperial-class 
Star Destroyer, the Talon was the 
backbone of the fleet. Tenn hoped to 
be transferred, one day, to one of the 
four new Super-class Star Destroyers 
that were currently being built. Those 
were monsters indeed, eight or ten 
times the size of the Imperial-class 
ships, which were themselves over a 
kilometer and a half in length. The 
SSDs looked like nothing so much as 
pie-shaped wedges sliced out of an 
asteroid and covered with armament. 
Perhaps if he called in the right favors 
at the right time, he might wrangle an 
assignment on the next one scheduled 
to roll ponderously out of the Kuat 
Drive Yards. He still had a few good 
years left in him, and who better to 
run the big battery on one of those 
monster ships than him? He had his 
request in, and maybe, if Hoberd got 
his promotion, he'd put in a good 
word for Tenn before he left. As long 
as Hoberd was running the battery, 
though, that wasn't likely to happen. 
He didn't want to lose the best CPO in 
the sector, so he said.
 Well, thought Tenn, it's nice to be 
appreciated. Still, he knew, deep 
down, that he wouldn't be satisfied 
until he could say he'd run the biggest 
and the best.
 Shift change was coming, and 
officers and crew filled the halls on 
their way to their duty stations. Even 
though it would only be a drill, Tenn 
was looking forward to hearing the 
generators whine as the capacitors 
loaded, followed by the heavy 
vibrations and scorched-air smell as 
the ion cannons and lasers spoke, 
spewing hard energy across empty 
space to destroy the practice targets. 
