
"Any life is of value to me. What is this?" She looked at the glass. The liquid pooled into a ruby color at the bottom of the tiny tulip-shaped vessel, but as the glass widened up, it became the palest of pink. "Only a bit of sherry. Try it; I believe you will find it to your taste." He raised his glass in a mock toast and tipped its entire contents down his throat. When he looked back at her, he nodded to the settee. "Have a seat, Victoria." "No, thank you." She set the glass down and stepped farther away; now she was standing behind the settee and he in front. "Are you frightened of me, Victoria?" "What have I to be frightened of? I am a Venator." "Indeed. I wondered the same thing myself. In fact, perhaps it is I who should be wary of you." He looked at her and held her gaze for a long moment. "Perhaps I should." He broke away and swiveled to the table to pour another glass of sherry. When he came back around, his face was shuttered, closed. He offered another sardonic toast, but instead of downing the whole glass, he merely took a sip and sat on the settee. Half turned, he arranged himself in its corner so that he could see Victoria, standing behind the protective fencing of the sofa's back, her hand resting on its chintz covering. "Why did you come here tonight?" he asked. "You were expecting me. I was a bit surprised." "I told you the last time you were here that I would see you again. I knew you would come back. But I am curious as to why." "Perhaps to thank you for the information that helped us to get the Book of Antwartha. If I had not had your information, Max and I might have died in the effort." "So you come bearing tokens of gratitude?" He shifted himself onto one knee on the sofa cushion and covered her hand with his fingers, holding it gently in place on the top of the back. "I am pleased to hear that. And particularly thankful that Eustacia sent you rather than Maximilian for that task." Victoria wanted to pull her hand away, but she controlled the urge. "I get the impression that you and Max aren't the best of friends." "I wonder why that is," Sebastian murmured, but he sounded as if he couldn't care less. "I'm more interested in finding out how you planned to express your gratitude for my assistance than what thorn sticks in Maximilian's craw." With his free hand, he reached up and began to tug her long glove down past her elbow. "Did I mention how much better you look when dressed as a woman than a man?" He released the wrist he'd held on the top of the settee, but not her glove, and when she pulled away the glove came off, turning inside out from her fingers. Her hand and arm were bare. She stepped back, out of his reach. Sebastian was not the type of man to climb over the settee after her. But he wasn't looking at her; he was holding her forlorn white glove between his hands, stroking his fingers down over its length as if smoothing his touch over her arm. Then he wrapped it gently around one of his hands and looked up at her. "Where is your ring?" At first she thought he was speaking of her vis bulla, the ring in her navel... but then she realized he was looking at her bare hand. Her left hand. "I don't have one... yet. Did you know I was there in the room at Redfield Manor?" "Of course. I also knew the moment you went out the window; Maximilian was too busy staking vampires to notice. But I saw the twitch of the drapes and knew you were gone. I understand you killed seven vampires that night." "It was eight. And Max defeated three Imperials on his own." "Bravo, Max." Sebastian rose and she stepped farther away. "Victoria, you are annoying me. I am not going to leap across the room and ravage you." He did indeed look angry, an unusual expression in a face that was normally bent on wooing or charming. He tucked her glove into his pocket and walked with rather harsh footsteps back over to the table where he'd poured their drinks. Turning to face her, he leaned back against it, crossing his legs at the ankles and his arms over his middle. He looked all bronze and golden and utterly dangerous. His hair gleamed dark near the crown, but tawny and blond and even silvery at the curling tips, and his mouth was set in a harsh line, the upper lip shadowing his lower one to a dark toffee color. There was silence for a long moment. Victoria had expected him to demand some sort of additional recompense for the information that led to their obtaining the Book of Antwartha, but he did not. His enticing, engaging manner had evaporated and now he merely looked displeased. "I am sure it is safe for me to leave," Victoria said at last. "I'm certain Max has managed to get Phillip away by now." She looked at him, expecting an argument. But instead he reached into his pocket and pulled out her glove, offering it to her. It lay draped over his open palm, but when she reached for it his fingers closed over her bare hand. And tugged. Perhaps it was surprise at his sudden movement; perhaps it was curiosity. Perhaps she was just tired of fighting it. But Victoria allowed herself to continue forward until she was standing as close to Sebastian as she had been in the

hallway. Transferring her hand to his other, as if unwilling to chance her escaping, he tucked the glove back in his pocket and looked down at her. Humor glinted in his golden eyes. "That was easier than I expected." "Sebastian-" He turned her bare hand palm up, lifted it, lowered his face... and touched his lips to the inside of her wrist. They were soft but firm, gently damp, and featherlight. They almost tickled. Then they moved, opening, tracing the texture of the veins and tendons in this demure region. He nibbled on the narrow edge of her wrist, gently bit the full pad of her palm at the base of her thumb. Victoria couldn't pull her arm away. No, that wasn't true-she could; she knew she could break his grip easily-but she could not force her muscles to move. Her eyes closed; her other hand reached out blindly, to catch herself, and flattened against a solid, warm, breathing chest. "I have always wanted to taste a Venator," murmured Sebastian, moving up to look at her. His lips were no longer thin and harsh; they would never look thin and harsh to her again after this. After feeling them. He still held her fingers, which curled helplessly around his, and he traced his thumb over the top of her hand, looking at her. And then they both heard it, and just as the noise registered in her mind, the door slammed open. In the doorway stood Max, leaning heavily against its side. "Rockley's been attacked," he said, then slid to the floor. Chapter Seventeen

In Which Miss Grantworth's Bedchamber Sees Much Activity The next thirty minutes were a blur of activity. Max, although confused and weak, was still coherent enough to explain that he'd managed to stop a vampire in the midst of an attack on Phillip. "Was he bitten?" asked Victoria, wrapping one of his heavy arms around her shoulders so that he leaned against her and one hand dangled free just below her left breast. She was helping him out to his unmarked carriage-not as difficult a task as it would have been if she didn't wear a vis bulla. "No... got there in time. Staked the bastard." Victoria assumed he meant the vampire, not Phillip. Although she wasn't completely positive. Max had saved Phillip, hustled him into Barth's hackney, and given the driver explicit instructions on how to get him home and what to do once there. Phillip was unhurt, but confused and nearly unconscious from the ensuing scuffle. "What will he remember?" asked Victoria as she helped Max climb into his carriage. "Nothing. Used the... pendant." S sn't sure what she was thanking him for. "Until we meet again," he said simply. He made no move to offer her glove, and she didn't ask. Victoria turned and climbed into the vehicle. Sebastian closed the door behind her. The carriage lurched as they started off, and she tipped onto the seat across from Max. He was slumped in the corner, a rumpled lump of black and gray. As the street lamps flashed into the interior, she saw that his eyes were closed. Had he been bitten? She hadn't even thought to ask... she'd been so worried about Phillip since Max's dire announcement. Victoria stood carefully, coming over to his side of the carriage, and nearly fell in his lap when they went around an unexpected corner. She was just reaching for his collar when he opened his eyes. "What are you doing?" he asked, pushing himself upright. "I thought you might have been bitten." "Sit down." He glowered at her. "I haven't been bitten in... years." "Then why do you carry salted holy water? And why does that bite look like it's new?" "So that if I am with anyone who's bitten, I can pour it on their bite." He seemed to be suddenly more alert. "What happened to you, then, if you weren't bitten?" He drew in a deep breath, folding his arms over his middle. "I was drugged. By your marquess." Victoria's eyebrows rose. "Really. So a mere slip of a marquess got the best of you, when a nasty vampire couldn't? And you freely admit this?" Max opened his mouth as if to speak, but appeared to change his mind. He turned to look out the window, his profile flashing every time a street lamp illuminated the carriage interior. She looked at the haughty slope of his nose, the set ridges of his mouth, the unruly mess of dark hair. He looked beat. "What happened, Max?" "I did what you asked, Victoria. We needn't discuss it further." He did not look away from the window. "Your

marquess is safe and will suffer no ill effects-and very little memory of what happened, because I took care of that too. He was trying to shoot a vampire with a pistol." Scorn laced his voice. Then, "Where is your glove?" Victoria looked down; both of her arms were hidden under her cloak, the bare one and the gloved one. "I... Sebastian took it." Max turned to look at her. "And what else did he take?" Victoria's heart thumped faster. She shook her head. "He expected payment for his information; what else did he take?" Liberties. Liberties her fiance hadn't taken. And in a way, he'd taken yet another piece of her naivete. Shown her exactly why women wore gloves. All the time. "Victoria." "Nothing. He has my glove, and has taken nothing else. I am a Venator, Max. He is no match for me." It might have been a laugh that issued from his lips; Victoria wasn't sure. But he said nothing, just turned and looked back out the window. They rode in silence for a time; then she spoke. "Thank you. For what you did tonight." That drew his attention from the passing scenery. He looked at her, dark and angry, from his corner across the narrow space. "Rockley had no idea what he'd walked into tonight. This is exactly the reason you cannot marry, Victoria. Your two worlds simply cannot intersect as they did tonight. Continuing on this path will only cause more destruction." And with that, he turned back to the window and said nothing more. Victoria did not sleep well that night. Her dreams were filled with a storm of images melding together: Phillip and Sebastian, Aunt Eustacia and Max, and words and voices running together: I've always wanted to taste a Venator... You cannot marry... That is something I would pay dearly to see... Does he know you walk the streets at night?... What else did he take? She woke to find sun streaming through the window, nothing at all like the dark dinginess of her clash of memories. It was nearly eleven o'clock. Madame LeClaire would be arriving in two hours for her gown fitting. Her wedding gown fitting. Victoria passed a hand over her eyes. Was Max right? If she married Phillip, was she attracting more destruction? Emptiness clawed her belly, and it was not because she'd had nothing to eat. How could she not marry Phillip? Charming, funny, handsome Phillip? The man who made her laugh, who jested with her, who helped her to see the humor in the society she was forced to live in. Who'd brought her flowers after she lectured him. The man who did the right thing, what was expected. A man she could understand. He had followed her last night. Followed her into a den of vampires with little thought for his safety and no understanding of the world he was entering. If she married him, would she be able to keep her secret? Would she have to? If he knew she was a Venator, and safer than anyone on earth, would he understand? He had made his confessions... harmless they were. Did she owe him the same? Sebastian's words haunted her. Does he know that it means his love walks the streets at night? That she must mingle with those from the dark side to learn their secrets? That she kills every time she raises her weapon? That she has a strength he cannot hope to possess? How could he understand? It had taken her weeks to understand, and she was called to this duty. He was so good, so proper. How could he be married to a woman who stalked evil? Who was violent... who killed? He could never accept that in a wife-he should not have to. He couldn't understand her world. Aunt Eustacia, and Max, and Kritanu... even Verbena and Barth... they understood. They were all a part of that world, that life. Phillip was not, and could never be. She drew a deep breath, knowing what she would do. A heavy knot settled in her middle as she began to consider life without Phillip. A life that consisted of lurking in dark streets, in subterranean pubs, the need to always hunt and kill. The end of dancing and laughing and no hope of having someone to love, someone to care for her. Perhaps that explained Max: his demeanor, the undercurrents of anger, and his ripping sarcasm. He was so alone. Victoria had believed it was by choice. Perhaps she was wrong. Perhaps she had no choice either. A loud slam from below, and the sound of pounding footsteps rushing up the stairs, caused her to turn toward the door to her bedroom. Shouts; they sounded like Jimmons, and even Verbena, and suddenly her door flew open, slamming into the wall. Phillip. "Victoria!" He stood there, tall and wild, his cloak whirling about him and his hair falling over his brow. "You are here, and safe!" She was so aghast she did not move even to close her jaw; Verbena and Jimmons and Maisie the housekeeper were standing in the doorway, all speaking at once, explaining how it had happened that Phillip had made his way up

here. "Send them away," he said to her, striding toward her where she remained in bed, her blankets pulled over her nightgown. "I am your betrothed; we are to be married in three weeks... send them away!" She had never seen him like this, the unruffled and proper Phillip in such a stir. "Go ahead; you may go." She waved at Jimmons and Verbena. Then, amazingly, considering the situation, she had a logical thought. "Is Mother up and about?" "She will be now," replied Verbena. "Keep her from me, then. Tell her whatever you wish, but keep her from here until the marquess leaves." "But it is not proper-" began Maisie. "Go. Please. It will be fine if no one speaks of this." Only after they left did Victoria allow herself to look at Phillip. The knot in her stomach had twisted tighter. She had thought to have more time to decide what to do... how to respond to Phillip. How to tell him she could not marry him. But her decision was made. It was the right one. "Victoria, Victoria." He stood next to her bed, hands behind him, as if trying to keep himself from reaching for her. "I am so sorry, but I could not wait. I needed to make sure you were here, were safe." "Phillip..." She shook her head, closing her eyes for a moment. What could she say? "Phillip, I am fine. You see me; I am safe. I only had the headache." Where had that come from? She hadn't planned to continue her charade. He looked at her from above, standing over her, his blue eyes sharp but still wild. "Victoria." "Phillip, sit down. Here." She smoothed her hand over the French-knotted coverlet, making a space for him next to her hip. "I don't know if I... should." He looked at her, and she saw something in his gaze she'd never seen before. "If it's proper." Victoria laughed; she couldn't help it. "Phillip, don't be absurd... you are already here, in my bedchamber. In three weeks I will be in yours." Their eyes met and her mouth dried. Had she really said that? That lie? He sat, his solid weight heavy on the edge of the bed, tilting her toward him. Through the layers of blankets his leg touched hers. "In three weeks. I don't know that I can wait so long." He reached over, touched her unbound hair, and let his hand trace her cheekbone before curling it back next to him. "But I must know, where did you go last night, Victoria? Are you in some kind of trouble?" "I wasn't feeling well," she told him. Why was she still lying? She had to let him go. "Victoria, I love you and you will be my wife, but one thing I cannot tolerate is dishonesty." He was angry, an emotion she'd never seen in him before. True anger, layered with a sort of desperate concern. But not frightening. No, this was an anger she could live with. "What were you doing in St. Giles last night? Tell me the truth." Then her tears burst forth. Everything she had held back in the last weeks, since she had had those dreams. Since she had learned of her calling. Racking sobs, shaking, and trembling-the results of fear she'd submerged so deeply when fighting for her lifeeverything poured out of her into Phillip's shoulder, for he'd gathered her close, the bedsheets falling away as he wrapped his arms around her. "Victoria, Victoria," he crooned, smoothing his hand over her head, down over the tangled curls of her hair, bumping along her spine. "My God, Victoria, what is it? I will fix it; just tell me. I will make it right. I am not without resources; I will use them all if I must." When she pulled away from his drenched coat, he had a handkerchief ready to mop her face and wipe her nose, as if she were a child. She felt like a child being cared for. For the first time in almost two months she felt like she didn't need to be in charge. In control. The strong one. She had never loved Phillip more than she did in that moment. "Thank you," she said with the soft hiccup of her last sob. He dropped the handkerchief and grabbed her shoulders. "What is it? Tell me. I cannot bear to see you like this." "I cannot." She drew in a long, hitching breath. "I cannot tell you, Phillip, but I swear it is nothing you can change. Even if you had all the money in the world, and you reigned over this land, you could not change this." He stared at her for a long moment, his eyes darting from side to side as if to get a better view inside her own gaze. The whites of his eyes were pink, cracked with red. "You must tell me." "I cannot." "Last night I came after you. I know it was you, despite the arguments your cousin made. At first I was afraid you were meeting a lover, and I followed you... because I had to know. I had to know if your heart was given to another. I thought even then that if it were, if I just knew it for certain, I would still want to marry you. I would find a way to drive him from your mind. "But when your hackney-my God, Victoria, don't you know how dangerous it is to use a hackney?-stopped in St.

Giles, I didn't know what to think. You wouldn't meet a lover there, no matter who he was. I saw you get out of the hackney and go through a door into one of the most dangerous-looking places I've ever seen. I would not have gone there if I hadn't known I must protect you. I had to use my pistol to convince some of the street men to let me by. "Your cousin saved my life. I am not sure what happened; it is all quite a muddle in my mind. I just know I left to look for you, and then I woke up at home. How I got there is very unclear. I dreamed about red eyes... "You see, my darling, I don't understand what happened last night, but I did not come here with accusations or preconceived notions. There is nothing you can tell me that would change the way I feel about you. Please." She could give him something; maybe it would help him to understand. "Do you believe in destiny?" He nodded, a bare hint of relief tangible in his face. "Of course. It was destiny that first brought us together years ago." "Destiny is unchangeable. It's indelible, written in stone. Power and money and resources cannot change it, Phillip. You cannot alter it. And that is why I cannot tell you, no matter how much you beg, what I was doing in St. Giles last night. Because that is my destiny." A destiny he could not accept-a wife who killed, a world of evil and darkness. Phillip was too much in the light... she couldn't destroy his world. "Victoria!" She was shaking her head. "I love you, Phillip. But I cannot." He looked stricken. "Victoria, with all that I am, I ask you to please tell me. I will not be angry, no matter what it is. But I cannot have this between us if we are to marry." Now. Her hands frozen under the warmth of the blankets, she drew in her breath and closed her eyes. She would not look at him whilst she said it. "Then perhaps we should not marry." He was still, so still. Even his breath stopped; she could hear nothing in the darkness of her closed eyes but the faint voices from belowstairs. And the rapid, painful thudding of her heart. "Victoria." The anguish in his voice opened her eyes. Phillip was not looking at her; he looked out the window at the sunshine pouring on the rooftop of a nearby garret. A blue jay, with its unpleasant squawking song, fluttered to a stop on a nearby tree limb. "I'm sorry, Phillip." He stood abruptly, spinning away from the bed, stalking to the door. She watched him through pooling eyes, and he paused at the threshold. "If you change your mind..." He spoke to the door. "I can't." She forced the words from her throat. She wanted to call him back. Phillip didn't look at her; he went through the door, closing it with a soft finality behind him. Victoria didn't understand. She would have slammed it. Chapter Eighteen

Interlude in a Carriage Victoria sent a note to Madame LeClaire, canceling her fitting due to illness. The word would be out soon enough, she knew, that the engagement of the Marquess of Rockley had been broken. It would be in the paper within dayseither the Society tattletale section, or the announcements; it depended who got the news first. She didn't have the heart to tell her mother. Not yet. Perhaps in a day or so, when the pain wasn't so raw. Lady Melly was so happy to be bringing a marquess into the family, Victoria didn't have the heart to tell her she'd called it off. Verbena tsked over her red eyes, but said nothing save, "I'm so sorry, miss. It's not the same, but I felt pretty bad when I lost my Jassie to another woman. Leastwise you know it ain't that." If that item was supposed to make her feel better, it didn't. Victoria only sent Verbena from her room and stared out the window, watching the screeching blue jay as it visited the tree. She begged off from attending a dinner party that night; instead, as soon as her mother left to trade gossip and jokes with the other ton ladies, Victoria slipped out of the house from the back door. She was dressed in her splitskirt gown, specially made for hunting vampires. That night she tracked and staked five undead. The next night, three more. The third night she only found one. It felt bloody good when she drove that stake into the vampire's chest. But it wasn't enough, so she wandered the streets near Covent Garden and allowed herself to be accosted by several mortal criminals. After showing them her pistol and the expertise with which she could kick and punch, Victoria ran them off into the darkness and felt a bit more satisfied. She didn't return to Grantworth House until after dawn. Then she fell into bed and slept restlessly. When Aunt Eustacia sent a summons on the fourth day after Phillip burst into Victoria's bedchamber, she considered ignoring it. She didn't feel the need to meet with her aunt or Max, who would certainly be there. She was doing her job hunting and killing the undead; they'd retrieved the Book of Antwartha, which she had hidden at the

