"Since we've covered the niceties regarding my choice of clothing," she said, feeling more confident now that she didn't have to maintain the unfamiliar guise of a gentleman, "will you tell me who can help me find the Book of Antwartha?" "If you would be so kind as to keep your voice more... temperate... I may be able to be of assistance. No, as I can see that won't be possible, we must go somewhere we can speak more comfortably." The thought of going anywhere with this man made Victoria uncomfortable... in a warm, improper sort of way. Perhaps it was just because Phillip had kissed her today that she kept noticing how Sebastian Vioget's mouth moved, and its shape. And noticing how close it was to her. Just then someone turned the corner from the bottom of the same staircase she and Verbena had descended, and paused, standing a short distance from their table. Even though he was not facing them, she recognized his tall, dark figure, perhaps because she'd half expected to see it anyway. Max. Victoria swiftly turned away to hide her face. "Do you have a place in mind?" "Excuse me for a moment," he said, standing abruptly. "If you would be so kind as to walk through that door, I will join you shortly." He drew her attention to a narrow door that Victoria had not noticed earlier; it was quite obscured to the casual observer, as it was nudged into the corner of an alcove. "It is unlocked." Victoria watched as Sebastian moved easily, quickly, but without appearing to hurry, directly toward Max. An uneasy feeling churned in her stomach, but she stood as directed, hoping to slip out before Max saw her. If Sebastian was right, and her disguise was so patently false anyone would see through it, it would ruin all of her plans if Max merely looked in her direction. Something tugged at her sleeve as she stood, and Victoria pivoted. She had completely forgotten about Verbena! How could the girl have so easily slipped her mind, sitting there next to her? The answer was clear when she turned and saw that during her conversation with Sebastian, her maid had adjusted her chair closer to another nearby table and appeared to be quite companionably sitting with three other people, including the vampiric piano player. "Is that not your cousin Max, speaking with Mr. Vioget?" asked Verbena. Her breath smelled like the ale she'd ordered, and the sparkle in her eyes told Victoria she'd been having a grand time. "Yes, it is, though he is not really my cousin. I must leave before he recognizes me. Tell your friends farewell and come with me." Victoria stood, gripping her cane-stake, and moved quickly through the door Sebastian had pointed out. Verbena followed. Even as she curved her fingers around its rough edge to pull it closed behind them, Victoria paused to look back. Sebastian and Max stood talking in the same place Max had been standing since he came into the room. Their conversation consisted of short bursts of speech shifting from one to the other, with little animation or expression on the part of either man, Max being the taller of the two. Neither appeared to be on the offensive, yet neither appeared to be particularly agreeable toward the other. As the two men moved apart with curt nods and without handshakes, she slipped back behind the door. Closing it after her, she turned to look, for the first time, to where Sebastian had directed them. Verbena stood, leaning against one gray brick wall, still holding her tankard of ale. Or was it Victoria's mug? It was full enough that it appeared not to have been touched. They were in a hallway with a curved brick ceiling and sconces studded every fifteen paces or so. Before Victoria had the chance to explore further, the door opened again and in came Sebastian. "Your friend can wait without," he said, glancing at Verbena. "She will be quite safe with Amelie and Claude." Victoria would have declined, but Verbena was already starting toward the door. "I would prefer it, my la-lord," she said quickly. "Amelie is the piano player and she has already fed tonight, so I am not afeared of her." "No harm will come to her if she is with Amelie," Sebastian repeated. "And what I am about to tell you is meant only for the ears of a Venator." Victoria started, then quickly recovered. Had Max seen her after all, and told him who she was? "I will be safe as a bug," Verbena told her with a bright smile, and against her better judgment Victoria nodded her assent. Verbena nearly slammed the door after her in her enthusiasm to return to her newfound friends, and Victoria was suddenly quite alone with Sebastian Vioget. He reached toward her, and it was all she could do to keep from flinching; then she felt the top of her head cool and lighten as he swept her hat away. "I have been wanting to do that since I first saw you," he told her, dropping it carelessly. "Now, if only..." He reached behind her, and this time she moved, just as his fingers touched one of the pins at the back of her head. She wasn't quick enough, for as she shifted the pin stayed in his grasp and pulled from her hair. Sebastian tsked. "I am one of those who thinks it a shame that women must hide the beauty of their hair." Victoria felt the pistol in her pocket and pulled it out. She didn't aim it at him, just pulled it out so that he could see it. "That may be well and good, but I am no longer interested in your commendations regarding my clothing and coiffure. If you cannot help me with my quest, I will excuse myself from your presence and find someone who can."

Sebastian laughed and dropped the hairpin. Victoria felt the heavy mass of hair slip at the back of her head, and she had to resist the need to touch it, to push it back into place. "You are worthy of your legacy, my dear. Now, before we continue, I should like to know your real name." She saw no harm in telling him. "Victoria. And I should like to know what makes you think I am a Venator." "I know quite a lot about everything. Including the fact that you... Ah, yes, indeed, it is true." He was reaching toward her again, and before she could stop him he'd pulled back the high, starched collar of her man's shirt. His hand was not gloved, and it brushed warm against her bare neck. Victoria took a measured step back. She was not going to react the way her body wanted to: quickly, jerkily, in panic. She would not let him know how he affected her with his insouciant way of touching her. She was a Venator, and she was stronger than he. Whoever he was. "Are you going to help me, or shall I just leave?" "And risk your cohort out there recognizing you? Without your hat, you look like a delicate young woman wearing her brother's clothing. Ridiculous, and an affront to your beauty. At least its brim hid some of that flawless skin and the line of your jaw." He offered her his arm, turning toward the hall that stretched before them. "I'm sure you aren't willing to take that chance. Why, I wonder, did you not want him to see you?" Victoria did not take his arm, but she turned to walk along with him. The passage was wide enough that they could stroll shoulder-to-shoulder without brushing against each other, and for that she was grateful. As she walked, the unstable mass of her hair bobbed with the rhythm of each step. "Do you know him?" She purposely did not say his name. "Maximilian? Of course I do. He comes in here occasionally, and I have told him he may patronize the place as long as he does not cause a disturbance or hunt my clientele. Just as I have warned my other clients not to hunt their prey in my establishment. See? We all get along famously." They walked along the hallway, Victoria holding her cane-stake in one hand and the pistol in the other. She felt confident that she was prepared for whatever threat might come her way. "In here, my dear," he said, stopping in front of a door near the end of the hall. There was another option across from this entrance. Both doors appeared to be identical. Victoria tightened her fingers on the stake as she stepped over the threshold into a well-furnished room that appeared to be an office. Bookshelves lined one wall; on another was a desk. To one side was a settee and two chairs clustered around a low table, near a fireplace. The wooden floor was covered with a rug. The only disconcerting thing about the chamber was the fact that there were no windows-and only one exit. "I see that my study meets with your approval," Sebastian said. "Please, have a seat." "You brought me here for what purpose? Surely the Book of Antwartha isn't sitting on the shelf there." "No, of course not. But it truly was important that we are not overheard in our conversation. Because"-he held up his hand to stop her furious response-"I can tell you exactly where the Book of Antwartha is. And how to get it." Victoria closed her mouth and sat down. She rested her cane next to her and slid the pistol beside her on the cushion. "Very good." He smiled and chose a seat next to her on the settee. "Now, then, if I give you this information, what will you give to me in return?" Prickles erupted over her skin. "What would be of value to you?" "Two things. Two very simple things, Victoria Gardella. Ah, yes, I know exactly who you are." Sebastian smiled and he looked at her with the gold-orange eyes of a tiger. "The first requirement is... you cannot tell anyone where and how you obtained the information. You cannot tell your cohort Maximilian; you cannot tell your aunt. If you do, I will know. And it will go very badly for you. You see, no one else at the inn knows who you are. No one would know we have met. No one would know how you came upon this information unless you divulged it." Victoria nodded. "I promise." "And I should trust you?" "The same way I trusted you when you told me my maid would be safe. And the same way I've trusted you, bringing me back here." He chuckled again, that knowing laugh. "Ah, yes, as a Venator you are in such jeopardy from me." His words were mocking, yet there was an edge to them that told Victoria they weren't as careless as they sounded. "But you were right to trust me regarding the safety of your maid. She is truly in no danger. As I told you, I do not allow preying on the unwilling in my establishment." "What is the other requirement?" The prickles on her arms rose in anticipation of his response. "I wish to see your vis bulla." Victoria's throat went dry. Not what she had expected. But much, much worse. "Would not a kiss suffice?" she asked boldly, a red haze clouding the edges of her vision. After all, she'd already kissed one man today. She could not imagine... opening her man's shirt and showing this stranger her middle. "Are you offering me an additional favor? If so, I will gladly take it. In addition to my original request, of course." "Not in addition, but instead." "It is a tempting thought, as I have never kissed a Venator... but no. I wish to see your vis bulla" The expression on

his face told her he hadn't even considered making the change. "And then I will tell you all you need to know." "How do I know what you tell me will be the truth?" "You will have to trust me." It was Victoria's turn to laugh. "And why should I trust you for something of that nature? And why should you help me?" "As for helping you... I of course have my reasons, but sharing them with you is not part of the bargain. It is of no matter to you why I should help a Venator. And... if the information is wrong-which it is not, I assure you-what will you have lost by merely showing me your vis bulla?" His voice dropped to a disturbing low at the end, a deep almost-whisper. "Or..." His voice was stronger now, steadier. "I can simply give Maximilian the information. I am sure he would be appreciative." "He wouldn't show you his vis bulla," Victoria responded, suddenly realizing that Max had one just like hers, dangling from his navel. "I don't wish to see his." Victoria felt the harsh thumping in her chest. It was just modesty that prevented her from showing him. Just modesty. And if she did, she could return to Aunt Eustacia and Max with valuable information... or even the book itself. Sebastian was watching her from a relaxed position in the corner of the settee, but she felt the tension as he waited for her response. And suddenly, as if giving up under his intense contemplation, gravity won out over Verbena's work, and her hair slid down from the back of her head into a loose mass around her shoulders. He smiled in satisfaction. "Just as I had envisioned it." "Tell me something and I will decide if the information is worth a kiss... or the sight of my vis bulla? Her own voice sounded rusty. "Lilith knows where the book is. She will be sending her Guardians for it tomorrow night when the moon is high. Either you will stop them, or Lilith will succeed and have it in her possession. Now, will you play this game or will you not?" Victoria angled back slightly against the arm of the settee, her torso turned toward Sebastian while her feet remained planted on the floor. The pistol was an uncomfortable lump under her hip, but she didn't care-she rather preferred knowing exactly where it was. She took off her gloves. Spreading the edges of her jacket, she pulled it away from the crisp white shirt that hung from the collar nearly to her knees. Her fingers rested on the cloth at the center of her belly, and she paused to look up at Sebastian. He hadn't moved, but rested quietly, watching her. His chest rose and fell under his own coffee-colored jacket and pale shirt. Victoria's fingers moved deftly as she pulled the shirt loose from her trousers. She could not look at him as she drew the edges of her shirt up, felt the cool shift of air over her suddenly bare skin. The holy silver gleamed against the white of her flesh, nestled in the shadowed hollow of her navel. She heard Sebastian draw in his breath slowly, and then free it slowly. He moved just as carefully, and although Victoria wanted to, she couldn't release the cloth she held open, couldn't pull it down. He reached toward her for the third time that night, and though her stomach shrank and dipped away, his fingers found the silver cross and caressed it... then slid to touch the gentle rounding of her belly, circling in an echo around her navel. Warm, heavy, intense... his palm covered her skin. The red haze at the edge of her vision turned dark and she could barely breathe. Chapter Nine

Miss Grantworth Becomes Frightfully Chilled at a Most Inconvenient Moment When Victoria opened her eyes, Sebastian was still looking down at his hand on her stomach. Blinking, trying to clear her head, she realized he hadn't even noticed she'd... what? Fainted? Only a moment had passed-she was sure of it-since everything went dark. A brief second. An anomaly. But whatever had caused it-whether it was her own sensitivities or some other weakness-she didn't want to chance that it would be repeated. She grasped Sebastian's hand by the wrist and removed it from her lifted shirt. He looked at her then, his eyes the rich color of strong-brewed tea, all remnants of the golden color gone. "You wanted to look. You said nothing about touching." If she weren't so wary, she would have been jubilant that her voice came out strong and sure, with a hint of the mockery Max often carried in his tones. He bowed his head in gentle acknowledgment and drew away. "I will be grateful to you if, now that I have upheld more than my share of our bargain, you will tell me what I need to know." "Indeed I will, Victoria." He clasped his hands over his chest, relaxing back into his position at the opposite end of

the settee, and seemed to gather his thoughts. That was fine with Victoria, for she wasn't sure she would be able to hear or remember anything he might say over the rush of wind in her ears and the pounding of her heart. At last he spoke, and when he did it was brief and to the point, as if he, too, felt uncomfortable continuing to be in her presence. "The book is currently in the possession of a man recently returned from travels in India. While there he purchased an old castle, and the book was included in the estate's library. A protection was placed on it centuries ago, and the book cannot be opened until the protection is broken. It also cannot be removed from the possession of its owner by a mortal human." "But an undead could steal it?" "Yes, that is the case. You must thus wait for Lilith to send her accomplices to take the book, and that is when you must apprehend them, after they have already stolen it. Else, if you attempt to take the book on your own, you will die as soon as you touch it." Victoria looked at him, considering. "But I am to believe that once a vampire removes the book from the owner, it is safe for a mortal to touch." "Indeed." "And... how is a vampire to steal it from this man if it cannot cross the threshold of a home uninvited?" Skepticism laced her voice. Sebastian gave a bare nod, as if acknowledging her cynicism. "That is why it will happen two nights from now. The owner of the house will leave on his travels, and the person staying there in his absence will invite the undead into the home." "This person who will invite the vampires in... is he aware that they are vampires? And the purpose of their visit? Will this person be harmed?" Sebastian's shoulders moved in a careless shrug. "That is all the information you will need, Victoria. You may act on it or choose not to." "And if you are lying to me, or mistaken in your information, I will suffer the consequences." Sebastian stirred, sitting up and leaning toward her, his eyes dark slits. "Victoria, I intend this to be only the first of many times for us to meet. Thus, I assure you, I am not lying. And when it comes to matters such as these, I am never mistaken." Victoria and Verbena did not arrive home until the sun was peeking over the eastern edge of London's profile. Weary, exhilarated, and unbalanced by the events of the night, Victoria did not speak during the ride home, and instead contemplated her next course of action. Sebastian had given her the direction of the man who had the Book of Antwartha. He also reiterated that the vampires were to steal it in two nights, which was now the very next night, because the owner would be away. If his information was accurate, Victoria had visited the Silver Chalice none too soon. Perhaps that was why Max had been there last night. Should she tell Aunt Eustacia and, by telling her, inform Max, so that they could work together to obtain the book? Or should she lie in wait for Lilith's men herself, in the event that the information Sebastian gave her was false? At Grantworth House the hackney pulled up at the curb by a yawning Barth, and Victoria and Verbena slipped down and onto the walk. Hustling toward the servants' entrance, Victoria followed Verbena through the back way, which had been left open by prearrangement, and managed to slink into her room without being noticed by any of the servants. Lady Melly would sleep until after noon, and to her knowledge, Victoria had come home from a dinner party with the headache. Verbena helped her undress, and Victoria fell gratefully onto her feather bed. Just as she was drifting off to sleep she remembered: Tonight she was to see Phillip at the Madagascar' ball. Perhaps there would be an opportunity for him to kiss her again. She smiled into her pillow. "Why is it," Phillip murmured as he drew Victoria close to his side, "that I must always beat a path through a throng of bucks if I wish to dance with you?" Her wrist tucked betwixt his arm and his side, she allowed her hip to sway against his as they strolled away. "They were not there to speak only to me," she replied, turning up her face to smile at him. "Gwendolyn Starcasset has quite a following as well." "That may be so, but most of them were panting over your hand, not hers." "You are too kind, sir," she replied with a coy smile. His arm tightened hers against his side. "I am not kind whatsoever," Phillip replied. "In fact, I have not one whit of kindness toward those fops." "And what of the mamas and belles who moon over your handsome face and bulging purse?" "I am soon to put them out of their misery. Would you care for something to drink, Victoria?" She could only nod and try not to stare up at him. Soon to put them out of their misery? Could he mean what she

thought he meant? Her skin flushed warm and she was grateful for the cup of punch in which she could bury her face. It was only yesterday that he'd kissed her in the park, and despite her unsettling experience at the Silver Chalice, Victoria had awakened late in the day today remembering the taste of his lips. Wondering if tonight he would take the opportunity again. A proper lady wasn't supposed to think about kissing a man to whom she was not married, or at least betrothed. But since she'd received her vis bulla, Victoria had moved far beyond being a proper lady. Killing vampires. Wearing trousers. Walking the streets at night. Showing her navel to strange men. What would Phillip think if he saw her vis bulla! Her face grew hotter than ever, and Phillip must have noticed, for he said, "Are you feeling quite all right, Victoria? Shall we step outside for some air?" "Yes, I would like that." Just outside the ballroom's grand French doors, Victoria and Phillip paused on the terrace. Two other couples stood at the waist-high railing, looking down over the weaving pathways and clusters of hedge that made up the Madagascars' walking garden. A gentle sweep of steps led from the center of the stone terrace down into the vegetation below. Phillip released Victoria's arm and slid his around the back of her waist, guiding her along the railing. A gardenia tree, laden with creamy white blossoms, grew up from below and was near enough that he could choose a flower and offer it to her. "For my lady," he said, holding it out to her. "I wanted to bring forget-me-nots, but they are out of season." Victoria smiled as she accepted the gardenia, amazed as always by the intense fragrance that came from a single flower. She noticed that Phillip had moved them along the terrace to a more private corner, still within the bounds of propriety as they stood out in the open in a well-lit area, but away from the wide-flung doors and chatter of the ballroom. The other couples lingering in the night air appeared not to notice their presence. She recognized one of them as Lord Truscott of the inept feet and Miss Emily Colton. Phillip turned to face her, crowding her gently toward the railing, and she tipped her face up. His dark hair rose well above his forehead, not one lock daring to fall from its high-brushed moorings even when he looked down at her. The look in his half-mast eyes made her hands damp, and she smiled nervously. "Victoria," he said in a rumbling voice that carried to only her ears. "You must know that I have never forgotten you, and my regard for you has grown since we have renewed our acquaintance." At that moment Victoria felt a prickle of cold air over the back of her neck. She started, so sudden was the sensation, and so unexpected. Why now? Phillip was looking at her in concern. "Victoria?" "Go on, please. You... were saying?" She smiled. Perhaps it was only a chill spring breeze. He took both of her hands then, and drew each of them, one at a time, to his lips, pressing a brief kiss onto the back and then the palms of each one. "When I made the decision to look for a bride, I anticipated that it would take me nearly as long to settle on one as it had taken me to decide to look." It was not a breeze. The chill had become harsher, more intense. Victoria, who stood with the railing behind her and the light of the ballroom spilling out in front of her, tried to keep her attention on Phillip. She smiled up at her suitor, even as it became clear that the vampire was not in the ballroom. He or she was here, outside. Likely with a chosen victim. She had to do something. Her fingers tightened in Phillip's grasp, and she looked back up at him. "Phillip... I feel a bit of a chill." He stopped, as her words had interrupted his, and looked down at her. "Could we... I should like to speak with you on something before we go back inside. I have something I wish to ask you." He released her hands and boldly placed his fingers around her bare arms, gently moving his hands up and down as if to warm her. Victoria swallowed. She wanted to hear what he was going to say... but how could she listen now? "Victoria," Phillip had continued to speak, "as I said, I expected it to take me a long time to find the right woman to marry... so imagine my surprise and delight when I realized I'd found her... only weeks after beginning my search. Because, in truth, I had found you long ago." The cold at the back of her neck was unbearable; it was all she could do to keep from pulling her arms from Phillip's grip and rubbing her nape while dashing off into the gardens below. For that was where the vampire was. And how was she going to get away to get there? "Victoria, will you be my marchioness?" "Yes, Phillip! Yes, I will... but would you please get my wrap? I am frightfully chilled!" She couldn't help that her voice came out with a panicked note; she had to stop the vampire. He looked down at her, surprise stamped on his face, as if he didn't quite know how to react. Victoria had to think: She had accepted his proposal, hadn't she?

"Yes, of course, my lady," he replied slowly, formally. Victoria felt a pit in the bottom of her stomach. He started to turn away, but she grabbed his arm and pulled him back. She flung her arms around his neck and pulled his face down for a kiss, murmuring, "Yes, I will marry you, Phillip. I want to marry you." A great burst of joy flooded her. She was in love, and she was going to marry Phillip! He kissed her in return, and then she pulled away, the frigidity at the nape of her neck calling her back to duty. "My wrap, please, Phillip, so that we can stay out here for a bit?" She smiled, biting the inside of her lip, silently entreating him to go now so she could slip down into the gardens. He was smiling too, now, not so formal, and she knew she'd saved that moment... now if only she could save the victim. Go now! He did, striding quickly from the terrace back into the ballroom, and Victoria barely waited until he was inside before hurrying down the steps into the dark gardens below. Chapter Ten

Wherein Miss Grantworth Takes Herself Out of Training When Phillip returned to the terrace carrying Victoria's filmy wrap, she was gone. He stood in the pie-shaped wedge of light that spilled over the stones and looked around to be certain she hadn't moved into a more shadowy corner... but she was nowhere to be seen. The other couples had disappeared. The patio was empty. Just then he heard a faint scream from down below, in the gardens. He ran down the steps, her shawl fluttering in his hand, his feet crunching on the pebble-stoned path, spewing up a scattering of stones with n skirts. She was staggering, half bent, sobbing, clutching at her gown. Without thinking about impropriety, he grabbed the woman's shoulders. "Victoria?" he said, giving her a soft shake. She looked up. It was not Victoria but Miss Emily Colton, who had been standing with Frederick Truscott on the terrace only moments before. Her face was a terrified mask, and something dark, like a scratch, marked her neck. She was babbling something incoherent, clutching at him as if she were drowning and he was pulling her from the water. Phillip was torn. Victoria was still out there, but Miss Colton needed him too. And what had happened to Truscott? "Come," he said, pulling her after him, back toward the house, calling for help along the way. Over her muffled sobs, he listened fearfully for another cry from the dark. "Did you see anyone else?" he demanded urgently. "Another woman? Miss Grantworth?" She seemed to nod, to give an affirmation, but he wasn't certain what she was saying between her sobs and trembling. When they came in sight of the terrace, he gave the woman a gentle push and called for help, then turned and dashed back into the darkness. "Victoria!" he called. "Victoria!" He rounded another corner, and nearly ran into her. "Victoria!" he exclaimed, grasping her shoulders and pulling her to his chest, crushing her there in gratitude that she wasn't the one sobbing, frightened. "What happened? Are you all right?" She seemed to be breathing hard, but she did not appear to be in any distress, and she disengaged herself from his death grip more easily than she should have been able to. She was looking at him, surprise and something else... intense... in her beautiful face. For a moment he forgot his worry and just enjoyed the perfection of her countenance-and wondered why her eyes carried such a predatory glint. "Phillip? I am fine. I am not hurt at all. What is wrong?" "I heard someone scream, and I thought it was you! You weren't on the terrace when I came back." He realized he'd dropped her wrap somewhere along the way, and he slipped his arm around her waist. After all, she had accepted his proposal. Although it wasn't official, they were engaged. It was proper enough. "I dropped my indispensable from the terrace, and when I went down to get it, I heard a woman... talking, arguingshe sounded as if she were in danger." "So you went after her to help?" Phillip wanted to shake her, his fragile love. "You could have been hurt!" "But I was not... it was Emily Colton. She ran past me. Did you see her?" "Yes; she is frightened, but appeared to be unharmed. Foolish girl," he said, squeezing her close to him with his arm around her waist. He should have expected nothing less of one who would dress down a young man half again as tall as she was when she was only twelve-her beauty and her boldness, her charm and her tendency to think for herself and not as Society would dictate. No wonder he loved her. "You were brave to go to her aid, but you could have been hurt yourself! You should have called for assistance." Victoria nodded against him. They were walking up the steps of the terrace, and Phillip was pleased to see that the terrace was still empty. Miss Colton would be taken care of after her fright, whatever it had been-perhaps something
