he is not a vampire. But the mere fact that he was at Rudolph Caulfield's home, in the midst of this transferal of the Book of Antwartha, has given both Max and myself reason to wonder at his involvement. Victoria, what do you know about Sebastian Vioget? Have you had any interaction with him?" Victoria opened her mouth to speak, then closed it. Sebastian had warned her about divulging where she'd gotten her information... but how could she keep such information from Aunt Eustacia? Especially when asked so directly? She struggled, knowing that her aunt was watching her, and knowing that the fact that she'd delayed answering her question had already given her aunt the information she sought. So she made the decision. "I visited the Silver Chalice to try to find information about the Book of Antwartha, and I met him at that time. He made it clear to me that I was not to tell anyone we'd spoken, so I did not." Aunt Eustacia nodded once. To Victoria's relief, she asked for no further details. Instead she commented, "If you should have occasion to meet him again, it would not be remiss if you were to attempt to establish some level of cooperation. It could be to our benefit." With that, Victoria knew she needn't put off visiting the Silver Chalice any longer. She would go tonight. Chapter Fifteen

Miss Grantworth Acquires the Headache It wasn't quite as easy getting to the Silver Chalice as Victoria had envisioned it. She'd forgotten that her fiance was taking her to the theater that evening. And she'd rather been looking forward to seeing the latest rendition of Master Shakespeare's The Taming of the Shrew. She told herself that the odd squirming feeling in her middle had nothing to do with the fact that she would see Sebastian again... it was because she hoped Phillip wouldn't question her when she claimed the headache immediately at the end of the play. That way she could see the program, but then be required to return home immediately instead of arriving late at a posttheater ball or taking a stroll through Covent Gardens. The curtain rose at seven thirty and the theater normally let out by eleven. If Barth were there with his hackney by midnight, that would give Victoria plenty of opportunity to pay a visit to the Silver Chalice and return home in time to get several hours of sleep before her wedding gown fitting. Perfect. And it actually worked according to plan. There weren't even any vampires at the Drury Lane Theatre, nor did even the slightest chill skitter across Victoria's neck during the trip there and back. In fact, there had been a dearth of vampires since the fights at Redfield Manor, and Victoria began to wonder if she and Max had fairly cleared out a good portion of Lilith's army. Perhaps the vampire queen had gone into hiding and was licking her wounds, or, better yet, perhaps she'd left the country. "Are you certain there is nothing I can do for you?" asked Phillip as he led her up the walk to Grantworth House. He was clearly disappointed at having their evening cut short, but he'd handled it with grace and concern, as she'd known he would. "Thank you, darling, but a bit of rest and Verbena's peppermint tea is all I need. I am sure to be fresh as a daisy tomorrow," she told him. "And I had best be so, for Madame LeClaire is attending me for a gown fitting." Jimmons had opened the door for them, and Phillip followed Victoria over the threshold. "Now that, my lovely, is something I would pay dearly to see." His smile, warm and crooked, told her that he knew it was only a matter of time before he would have his desire fulfilled. Glancing about as if to assure himself that Jimmons had retreated, Phillip took her shoulders, and under the gentle pressure of his fingers she stepped toward him. Her breasts brushed the buttons of his coat, the folds of her skirt jutted around and between his trousers, and one foot slid between his. Another guiding movement from his fingers, and she came closer and had to draw in her breath because they were close, touching at hip, thigh, and foot. And then mouth. Warm, slick, tender, he kissed her. If she'd truly been suffering from a headache, Victoria was sure it would have flown as easily from her head as all other thought actually did. "I know you aren't feeling quite the thing," he murmured near her lips when they paused, foreheads heavy against each other, "but I can't resist." His nose slid against hers as he dipped to kiss her again. When he finally set her away from him, just as carefully as he'd drawn her near, Victoria opened her eyes. She had to blink in order to focus, and was deliciously pleased to see that his normally half-lidded eyes were even droopier. He looked as though he wanted to slip back into her arms with the same ease and comfort of sliding into a feather bed. But warmer. More inviting. "Good night, Phillip," she heard herself say as he stepped away, still holding her hand. Her palm, then fingers, then the very tips of them, slid through his grip as he released her. The door was behind him. Still looking at her with

those half-closed eyes, meaningful and determined, he reached for the knob, turned it, and slipped out into the night. "Well, if that wasn't a kiss of true love, I don't know what is." Victoria spurt to see Verbena standing at the bottom of the staircase-lud, she hadn't even heard her approach!-with a decidedly wistful expression on her face. "Love's not necessary to a well-matched marriage," Victoria said firmly, "but it certainly doesn't hurt. Now, is Barth here?" "He's been waiting just around the corner for the marquess to leave," Verbena replied. "Are you certain I cannot go with you tonight?" "No, I thank you, Verbena, but I will go alone. Barth will deliver me safely and I'll be home before dawn. You'll need to be here in case my mother asks for me. She was concerned when I left the theater, as I told her I wasn't feeling well. Now, I had best be on my way if I hope to get any sleep tonight." "Barth will wait while you change your gown." "No, but I will take my dark red cloak. Its hood will help to hide my face." In the event that Max was also at the Silver Chalice. When she alighted from Barth's hackney forty minutes later, Big Ben had just struck half past midnight. Under the heavy cloak, Victoria held the pistol she'd remembered to bring this time-there would be no Verbena to come to the rescue tonight. She also had three stakes in various locations on her person; her indispensable, which held a vial of salted holy water; and a large crucifix tucked into her relatively high bodice. That last had been at Verbena's insistence, for if she was not allowed to go, she would ensure that her mistress was well protected. Well protected she would be from vampires. And armed with the pistol, she would be safe from other predators. But for some reason, when she thought about Sebastian Vioget, she was not altogether certain how secure she would be. The Silver Chalice had more empty tables than it had the last time Victoria had been there; but since there'd been only one at that time, and there were three this time, she did not think it was any indication of a dearth of business. Under the cloak's hood and the low coil of her hair, Victoria's neck bristled with chill as though an arctic wind blasted it. At the bottom of the steep stairs she paused to glance around, looking for anyone she knew. Amelie, the platinum-haired pianist who'd sat with Verbena the last time, was at her place to the left. She bore the same melancholy look Victoria remembered from before, and played the same sad, drawn-out music. Max was not here, and neither, as far as she could see, was Sebastian. Drawing back the hood of her cloak, Victoria stepped from the shadows near the stairs and started toward a table. Berthy, the rude serving woman, remembered her, even though Victoria had been dressed in man's clothing the last time. Apparently Sebastian had been right about its not hiding her gender. Berthy sloshed by with two hands full of tankards and gave Victoria a nudge that resulted in a splash on her cloak. "He said to come to the back rooms." Victoria didn't waste the energy wondering how Sebastian knew she'd arrived; perhaps he'd told Berthy to give her those instructions regardless of when she came. She started toward the brick wall where the door was, then changed her mind and selected a seat at an empty table with three chairs. On her way back to the bar, Berthy paused by Victoria's table just long enough to ask, "Wot's it to be?" "Cider," replied Victoria to the back of her head; but Berthy nodded, and she knew she'd heard her. Letting her attention wander the room, Victoria amused herself by identifying which patrons were undead and which were mortal. To her surprise it was fairly evenly split, and there were even tables at which the two kinds mixed. Why a mortal would willingly interact with an undead was something she couldn't comprehend. It was rather like the fly sitting down for tea with the spider: likely to be dangerous and messy. When Berthy swooped back by, her hands full again, Victoria watched as she slammed down two tankards at a table with vampires. Something too opaque to be red wine slopped over the sides and ran down onto the table. Victoria felt the hair on the back of her arms rise, and she looked away as one of the undead drank eagerly. Placing the cider in front of Victoria, Berthy gave her what appeared to be a smile and leaned close enough to say, "Makin' him come to ye, eh? 'At's the way to teach 'em." And then she was gone. Hiding her smile in the wide metal mug, Victoria took a sip of the fermented drink. Not bad. She'd remembered her coins this time, and pulled out a farthing to leave on the table for Berthy. Just then Max-dressed in black, of course-appeared from around the corner of the descending stairs. As Victoria had done, he looked around the room, and, recognizing the inevitable, she raised her hand to draw his attention. He didn't appear surprised to see her; in fact, the speed with which he made his way to her small round table betrayed the fact that he'd been searching for her. Eustacia must have told him. "Good evening, Max," Victoria said as he slid into the chair next to her. "Shall I ask Berthy to bring you an ale? Or would you prefer what they're drinking?" She gestured to the vampires next to them. "It looks a bit thick to be a chianti." He leaned toward her, his elbows on the table next to hers, his eyes scanning the room even as he spoke. "I cannot

believe you came here alone, Victoria." "I'm a Venator, Max, same as you." "I don't know what Eustacia has put into your head, but Sebastian Vioget-" "-is delighted to welcome you to his establishment." Max's intensity evaporated. Victoria literally felt it ooze out of him; he was sitting close enough that she felt the ease in his taut muscles, the gentle, deep breath he took. "Vioget. What impeccable timing, as always." Victoria glanced at Max. His body relaxed, lean and long, in the chair next to hers; he looked as though his best friend had just wandered up and mentioned that the sun was beaming. His smile showed even white teeth and a gentle dent in the skin next to the corner of his mouth... but she recognized the edge to that innocuous smile. "And who is your lovely companion?" Sebastian slid into the third seat at the table, to the left of Victoria. The three of them sat in a wide vee, with Victoria at the apex, facing the open room. Before Max could reply, she had to save the moment. "I must have the advantage, then, Mr. Vioget. I am Victoria Grantworth, and I must confess I am aware that you are the owner of this establishment. I saw you the last time I was here." None of which, strictly speaking, was a lie. Approval glinting in his eyes, Sebastian reached over and took her gloved hand. "I am very pleased to make your acquaintance, Miss Grantworth." He raised her hand to his lips and pressed a kiss to it, watching her with his golden eyes. It brought to mind the last time she'd visited the Silver Chalice-when she'd been dressed as a man, and they'd shaken hands, her slender one in his wide-palmed one. And then she had a flash of memory of that same bronze hand, fingers splayed, brushing over the warm skin of her ivory belly. Her stomach tightened involuntarily, as if he were reaching to touch it again, and their eyes met as he released her fingers. His expression had changed to amber, and she knew he remembered too. "How about some of that whiskey you keep in the back," Max said, his voice still low and smooth. But Victoria could feel him scanning her as if trying to read between and under and around the polite words they'd spoken. His unruffled manner merely underscored the power she knew was hidden. The question was whether Sebastian was aware of it. Sebastian caught Berthy's attention, and somehow she knew what he wanted, for moments later she slammed down the whiskey bottle and two small glasses. This time she did not slosh on his lace cuffs. "So you have retrieved the Book of Antwartha," said Sebastian after he tipped his glass back. Light from the wall sconce behind him glowed at the edges of his curling hair, giving him an oddly angelic appearance. "I must offer you my congratulations. It was a bit of a moment, there, Pesaro, when you might not have succeeded." Max's arm brushed hers as he tossed back a healthy swallow of the golden liquid. Placing the glass with deliberate care, he watched Sebastian closely, yet his words sounded nonchalant. "Did you know of the protection on the book? That a mortal must not steal it from its rightful owner?" Sebastian's response was equally as cool. "I had heard something of that nature." Their gazes met steadily, neither willing to give way. "Kind of you to have mentioned it." Suddenly Victoria's attention was drawn to a cluster of movement near the bottom of the staircase entrance. She glanced over and her heart stuttered to a halt. No. No! Impossible! Still staring at the entrance, she could barely get the words out. "It's Phillip! Rockley! He's here!" Victoria grabbed blindly at Max's wrist. "My God, he's here!" Max had been focused on Vioget; now he turned to look at her, then toward the entrance, where she was still watching in shock. She felt her nails bite into his warm skin. The marquess was standing just at the bottom of the staircase. He appeared to be holding a pistol at his side. And he had drawn the attention of more than one of the Silver Chalice's occupants. How could this be? She had to get him out of here... but she couldn't let him see her! Victoria dragged the hood of her cloak up over her hair and shifted back into the shadows, realizing that she was going to have to ask Max for help. Her fingers were icy. She felt ill. How had he come here? How could it be? "Someone you know?" asked Sebastian lightly in his French accent. He was watching them closely, as if feeling his disconnection from the two of them. "I do hope he is not planning to cause trouble." "Miss Grantworth's fiance," Victoria dimly heard Max explain as her brain fumbled for a solution. "She must leave before he sees her." Thank goodness he understood. And he was right-she had to leave before he saw her! The shock began to wane, replaced by focus and determination. Sebastian looked at Victoria in surprise. "Sneaking around on your betrothed? Tsk, tsk, my dear Miss Grantworth." Lifting his eyes, he caught Max's. "I will show her another way out, so she'll not be seen." Apparently Sebastian understood too. Max appeared ready to argue, but Victoria took his arm again, looking at him from under the hood of her cloak. "Max, you must see to him. Please. Make certain he gets out of here, and home safely. He doesn't belong here." Sebastian stood, pulling Victoria to her feet without waiting for Max's agreement. "Come with me, Miss Grantworth,"

he murmured, closing his fingers firmly around her arm. Victoria sent Max one last pleading look-much as she hated the fact that she had to ask for his help-and allowed Sebastian to lead her two paces from their table and through the door to the hidden hallway. Max would make sure Phillip was safe. Max watched Vioget whisk Victoria from the main room. Damnation. What the hell did Rockley think he was doing? It didn't matter how or why... now the only concern was getting the fop out of here before the vampires decided to take offense at the pistol he was holding. During their murmured conversation, Rockley had only scanned the room and taken three uncertain steps farther into the pub. If he'd seen Victoria, it had been only as a shadowed figure. "Rockley," Max said as he approached the man, who still stood at the entrance, looking around and gathering the attention of every undead in the room. Fresh blood was always better than the kegged stuff Vioget kept in the back. "May I offer some advice? Put the weapon away. You won't need it here." The fop looked at him, and Max was gratified to see that there was no fear in his eyes, nor was there the jumpiness that often accompanied men who waved pistols around in the form of courage. His look was not only steady, but unsurprised at seeing a face that he recognized. "It was necessary to get from my coach to the door to this place," Rockley replied, tucking the pistol into his pocket. "And I'll use it if I need to in order to find Victoria and get her to safety." Here was where Max had to show his skill as an actor-better, he thought snidely, than Victoria and Vioget had done earlier with their demonstration of a first meeting. "Victoria? What in the bloody hell are you talking about, Rockley?" "She's here somewhere. I followed her, and I cannot imagine what she is doing here! In a place like this." Even as he spoke, his sharp eyes darted around the room again, as if to assure himself she hadn't reappeared. "What are you doing here?" "I haven't seen Victoria," Max said unequivocally. "I've been in this seat for well over an hour, and if she were anywhere around, I would have seen her. I won't even ask the question why you think she would come to a place like this, in the middle of the night. You must have some reason for thinking so, ridiculous as it is." "I followed her from her house. I saw her get out of a hired hackney, for God's sake. A hackney! Your cousin got out of the hackney and came down here." That was right; he couldn't forget that Victoria had told him they were cousins. "How long ago was this?" asked Max, knowing that there had been a lapse of time between his arrival and Rockley's; and Victoria had already been here when he came back into the Chalice after a quick patrol through the neighborhood. Max had been waiting for her since eleven o'clock. "Some little bit of time," he replied. "I fell into an altercation when I first came out of my carriage, and had to persuade a few gentlemen that I was coming down here, either with their permission or without." That explained the pistol. "As I have said, Rockley, she is not here. Indeed, if I had seen my cousin come into an establishment such as this, I would have escorted her home immediately. This is no place for a woman, nor for most men either." "I followed her from her house," Rockley said stubbornly. "She said she was feeling ill, so I brought her home after the theater. But she left her wrap in my carriage, and I came back to return it and saw her come out the front entrance and climb into a hackney." "You must be mistaken. It must have been her maid you saw, or someone else leaving her house. It's ludicrous, Rockley, simply ludicrous to think Victoria came to a place such as this." Max noticed that one of the larger vampires had been eyeing Rockley with more than curiosity. He needed to get the man out of here before he found himself in the middle of a brawl. The truce the undead and mortals shared here at the Silver Chalice was tenuous; once strained or stretched, it quickly disintegrated into a melee. He'd seen it happen. In spite of the fact that it would be more than an inconvenience to Sebastian Vioget, Max couldn't let that occur. He looked at Rockley, who, for all his every-hair-in-place appearance and perfectly folded cravat, appeared ready and able to protect himself. Acting the hero was all well and good, and it certainly must be attractive to the ladies... but the Marquess of Rockley was not the least bit equipped to deal with the particular dangers here. Max had plenty of experience and little patience with such naive do-gooders. The only thing to do in a situation like this was buy some time, get the man a drink, and put salvi in his whiskey. That would make him much easier to manage. "You did not tell me you were engaged," murmured Sebastian in the flickering light. Victoria felt the cold stone wall of the passageway behind her, and the warmth of his words on her face. He'd closed the door behind them, and they were alone in the curved-ceilinged hall. His fingers still held her gloved arm betwixt her wrist and elbow; she could easily snap his grip with one tug.

"And you did not tell Max about the protection on the Book of Antwartha," she replied. "We all have our secrets." He smiled. "Is it a secret that you are engaged to a rich dandy? One who must be rescued from the darkness like a debutante fending off an overzealous suitor?" At that, Victoria did yank her arm away, breaking his grip. "Rockley is no secret, and he is not the weak fool you make him out to be. You needn't stand so close to me." "Has he seen your vis bulla?" He had not moved away, and his hand had shifted between them, below her breasts, to press flat over her shirtwaist against the trembling muscles of her stomach. "Does he know what it means?" She shoved against his shoulders and pushed him away. He moved, but barely stumbled backward. He was stronger than she realized. "Does he know that it means his love walks the streets at night? That she must mingle with those from the dark side to learn their secrets?" Unruffled, nonplussed by her violent reaction, he spoke, his voice low and hypnotic. "That she kills every time she raises her weapon? That she has a strength he cannot hope to possess?" "He knows nothing." Victoria spoke from between clenched teeth. Sebastian had moved in toward her again, crowding her back against the wall, but he did not touch her. "Has he seen it, Victoria?" The gentle roll of her name's last syllables caused an odd wave in her middle. "Has he?" She could not look away from his tigerish eyes, could barely move her lungs to breathe. The damp, rough wall jutted into her cloak and through the cloth of her flimsy gown, just as the pressure of his hand had come through the front of her skirt. She felt a trickle of sweat from the stones seeping into the back of her head. It was cold and musty. "No," she whispered. Satisfaction glowed in his expression. "I see." He stepped away suddenly, as if he'd been yanked back. As if her proximity had suddenly become too much. Victoria was able to breathe and to move, and she leveraged herself from the wall, shifting away from him. "Come. Let us go before your Venator comes back to check on us." He turned and strode down the passageway, leaving Victoria to follow; so different from the first time, when he'd led her by the arm. She hesitated, as she had then. The choice between Scylla and Charybdis: solid Phillip and the maelstrom of Sebastian. Which was the lesser of the two challenges? In the end, she followed Sebastian. Phillip was a bigger part of her life, one she would not risk jeopardizing. Sebastian was merely a man. Chapter Sixteen

The Marquess Wins the Shell Game and Makes a Grave Error Phillip de Lacy was no fool. Not a bit. He knew something was amiss; what he did not know was whether Victoria's brooding cousin Maximilian Pesaro was the cause or the cure. The man seemed capable and intelligent; he did not appear sly or devious. By firmly suggesting that Phillip put away his pistol, he had likely saved him from causing an altercation here in this filthy place-something that Phillip had missed in his concern for Victoria. He had to give him credit for that, if nothing else. The way some of the patrons here were looking at him, as if he were a young hare ready for the spit, made Phillip more than a bit uneasy. He was no light-footed jackrabbit, skittering off at the slightest hint of danger. But there was something wrong about this place. Something that made his blood run cold. He'd seen Victoria leave her house; despite Pesaro's arguments, he was certain it was she. The way she walked, her height, even her movement as she closed the door behind her... he would recognize Victoria anywhere, in any disguise. And that garnet-colored cloak was fine wool; surely she would not loan it to her maid. Thus he'd followed the hackney, at first with a jealous twisting in his heart-was she going to meet someone? A lover? This was not the first time she'd left an evening early or cut short her visit. Uncertainty borne of his need for her, and worry for her safety, drove him to follow her. He did love her; he could not bear it if there were someone else who possessed her heart. When the hackney took a turn to the worst part of London and finally rolled to a stop in this dark, dingy place, Phillip no longer worried that she was meeting a lover. Instead he realized that whatever called her to this part of town went much deeper than lust or passion. Whatever she was involved in she could not, should not handle alone. She must be frightened out of her mind to travel to such a place; and it could be only the worst of circumstances for her to be unwilling to confide in him. But he would take her home and convince her to tell him... for they were to be married, and he to be her husband. He would take care of her. He would fix whatever needed to be fixed. That, at least, had been his plan until he walked down the stairs into this hellhole of a pub that smelled like rusting iron and must. The cousin had drawn him to a table in the most shadowy corner and ordered him a drink. It wasn't

until he saw, from the corner of his eye, Pesaro's hand shift over Phillip's own drink, ever so quickly, so slightly-but enough that he recognized the movement-that Phillip realized Pesaro had his own agenda. And when Phillip took a sip of the whiskey and felt Pesaro watching him, he knew it for certain. So when the other man turned to speak to the massively well-endowed serving woman, Phillip exchanged their glasses. And when Pesaro turned back, Phillip offered a toast, watching as the other man drank of the same drug he'd attempted to foist upon him, all the while wondering why Pesaro would do such a thing. Was he trying to kill him, or merely drug him? He supposed if Victoria's cousin wanted him dead, he wouldn't have advised him to put his pistol away, or drawn him away from the center of attention in the room. No matter. He would either ask him or, if he died, it would be a moot issue. Unsurprisingly, Pesaro appeared eager for Phillip to drink his whiskey; so he obliged, but only if the cousin drank with him. It was when their glasses were nearly empty that he began to see signs of the other man's edges wearing down. His eyes drooped; his words came slower. Whether he was being poisoned or merely drugged, Phillip did not know... but whatever it was, the other man had attempted to foist it upon Phillip, so he felt very little remorse. "You switched glasses," Pesaro said, his voice slurred and his eyes glistening with anger. "Damn fool." "It is only what you deserve. Why have you tried to poison me?" "You do... not know... danger... Keep you... safe... Fool." He waited until Max gave up, his head slumping to the table. "Now I will find Victoria." Phillip dropped a few coins on the sticky wooden planks and they clattered to a stop next to the man's half-curled fingers. Then he stood and walked away without looking back. It was clear that his fiancee was not here, if she ever had been. He crossed the room, hurrying toward the stairs, lingering the pistol under his cloak. Phillip couldn't wait to get out of this cloying, depressing place; he rushed up the steps, needing to breathe the clean night air. He had to clear his mind, which now had many more questions than when he'd arrived-including the reason Victoria's cousin would try to drug him. When he reached the top of the stairs, Phillip heard heavy steps behind him. He turned and saw one of the patrons, large and pale-faced, stalking up the stairs. Slipping through the door, Phillip was back in the night. He closed the door and turned to hurry away; but the man came through more quickly than he could have imagined. Suddenly he was right behind him, and Phillip felt hot breath on his neck... even though it was covered by his cloak, and the man was not touching him. He turned, pulling the pistol from his pocket and pointing it at his stalker. They were standing in the middle of a narrow alley, and there was nowhere for him to run but back down the stairs to the Silver Chalice... or past the man who blocked the street entrance of the alley. "Stay back, or I will shoot," Phillip warned, his finger tightening on the trigger. His aim was steady, his senses alive and singing even as a confident calmness flowed through him. He did not wish to hurt the man, but he would do what he must to protect himself... and find Victoria. The man took another step forward and Phillip pulled the trigger, aiming for his shoulder. His aim must have been off; the man kept coming. His vision swam, and he felt an odd tightening in his chest, as if his lungs were not his own... as if someone else inflated and deflated them. He could not look away, could not move away from the man coming toward him. Something glinted red, but Phillip could not see it... it curled at the edges of his blackening vision. Phillip could not focus; he aimed blindly ahead, hoping for the man's chest, and pulled the trigger. His attacker's eyes were burning an odd color... like glowing wine. He reached for Phillip, who tried to pull away, but the man had inhuman strength; Phillip could not shake him, could not dislodge his grip even slightly. And then something white gleamed in the dim light as one hand closed over Phillip's head, pulling it to one side. Sharp white teeth, descending toward his neck. "Why did you not tell Max about the protection on the Book of Antwartha?" asked Victoria. She stood fully across the room from Sebastian, in the same denlike chamber they had been in before-the one with a single entrance. He looked up from where he was pouring two small glasses of something pale pink. The settee on which she'd sat before, and where he'd touched her vis bulla, bisected the space between them like the low stone fence that kept the sheep in their fields at Prewitt Shore. Victoria wasn't certain who was the fenced-in lamb and who was not. "I wanted to see if you had kept our bargain," replied Sebastian, stepping toward her. Victoria moved so that the sofa remained between them, and reached across to take the glass he offered. She was careful not to allow their fingers to touch. "If he knew about it, it was because you had told him." "I kept our bargain, but he could have died without the knowledge." "But he did not, for he did not touch it. He knew." "I told him only to save his life. He didn't believe me." "His life is of such value to you?"
