"You could not have appeared any more fortuitously," Max replied. Victoria looked at the ugly red welts at his neck. The bleeding had stopped, and she'd had the pleasure of pouring salted holy water on his bite during their drive back into London. She had said very little since they left Lilith's hideout, leaving Max to explain what he could. "Venators do holy work," Eustacia said from her chair. "The most miraculous things happen when we are fighting evil." Miraculous? Victoria closed her eyes. She could not dismiss Phillip's face from her memory, the deep hunger... the pleading... the curve of his lips and the line of his nose. The beloved face, turned desperate and vacant. You cannot save him. Max's angry words reverberated in her mind. She could not save him; indeed, she had condemned him. "The book was destroyed?" Eustacia's question brought Victoria back, and she looked up to see all eyes focused on her. "I never intended to give it to her." She looked at Max. He bowed his head in acknowledgment, but said nothing. He'd been uncharacteristically kind to her since they'd climbed down off the roof of the mansion and sat in the carriage, watching the house burn. Lilith's stronghold was destroyed, but there was no reason to believe that she was. Or Phillip. There would be more battles in the future. Lilith would rise to power again, and they would face her. And as Aunt Eustacia told her, the vampire queen would never forget Victoria's role in her downfall. "Do you know what happened to Sebastian?" she asked suddenly, looking at Max. "No. I presume he either perished in the fire or was killed by the Imperials. He would have preferred it, rather than face Lilith." She did not miss the disdain in his voice, and she did not begrudge him that. She'd seen firsthand the power Lilith had, and had felt the inexorable allure of a vampire's complete hold. Perhaps death was better than being unable to control one's own actions and desires. But not for her. "Aunt Eustacia, may I speak with you?" "I have been waiting for you to ask." When they were alone, her aunt spoke before she did. "I have no words for how sorry I am about Phillip, Victoria." Her jet eyes held grief and remorse, and her soft, knobby hands reached for those of her niece. "If I had known-" "But you didn't. You couldn't. And you-and Max-tried to stop me." Victoria gripped her aunt's fingers and blinked back the tears. "Is there nothing that could be done to save him?" Eustacia shook her head. "If a vampire has fed on a mortal, he is damned for all eternity. Perhaps prayer or great sacrifice might save his soul, but there is no guarantee." Victoria closed her eyes. "It was my selfishness that caused it. I should never have married him. I loved him, and I should have loved him enough to release him." She raised her face, wiping away the tears. "He told me that his destiny was to love me-whether we were together or not. Now he cannot do even that." "It is hard, Victoria. I know. It is beyond anything you ever imagined. You have given your life for this cause, and never forget that it is the right and true thing. You help to rid the world of evil, to keep it at bay. If you and Max and I and the others were not here, giving up our lives, this earth would have been overrun by evil long ago. In return for our extraordinary powers and protections, we sacrifice." She hesitated, then said, "Lilith offered to release you, did she not?" Victoria nodded, her wet face hot and sticky. "I wanted it, Aunt Eustacia. I wanted it. She would have given me Phillip... or she said she would have. Could she have?" "Perhaps. I do not know." Eustacia drew in a long, long breath. Exhaled. "Victoria, I have not been fully honest with you. About the choices and vocations of a Venator. "Some Venators are born, as you were. Some choose, as you know, through great danger and sacrifice, to take on the role. Once the decision is made to accept the responsibility, there is only one way a Venator can cease being-" "No." Victoria stopped her, shaking her head, certain. "No. Do not say it." Her aunt paused, looking at her. "I know it is too late for you and Phillip, but, if you wish it, I will. Your sacrifice has been great." Victoria stood, walking over to the cabinet where the Gardella Bible was locked in safety like a host in a sacristy. "No. It is no longer an option for me, if it ever was. When I first accepted the Legacy, I did so innocently-but I did not understand. "I thought it was fun-to be strong, to be able to walk the streets alone at night, and know that I could defend myself better than any man could. It gave me freedom that I had never imagined a woman could have! "With the freedom, with the strength and power, comes pain and sacrifice. The impossibility of having a normal life. Responsibility. "I can never go back, Aunt Eustacia, even if you gave me that chance. I cannot, because it's no longer a game for me. It's no longer merely a task-to hunt evil and send it to hell. Lilith has made it most personal." Epilogue

A Farewell He moved through the silent house like smoke-quick, dark, noiseless. His house. His home he could enter uninvited. If one of the servants saw him, they would think nothing of it. Nothing but that the master had returned home at last. But no one saw him as he moved silently up the stairs. Need pulsed through him, and as he thought of the taste of her, of being sated at last, he felt her heartbeat moving with his. Even from that distance. He smelled her, and his hands trembled at the relief that would soon be his. The awful need would dissolve, and he could think again. Breathe on his own. Rest. Feel something beyond hunger. He would take her with him, be with her... forever. Make her like him, immortal. She was his destiny... had been, always would be. He stood in the doorway of her chamber. Not hesitating... savoring. Experiencing the pull, her draw... and the stronger bond that he controlled. He knew it was strong enough. Their love was deep enough. He could do it... Powerful as she was, he could turn her. She lay on her side, covered by nothing but a filmy white gown that left her arms and bosom bare, and the blue filter of moonlight through the open window. Her dark hair curled over the pillow. Her eyes were closed, deep in shadows. He stepped in, his heart-no, her heart-pounding in his chest, his temples, his belly, his cock. His breathing deepened, slowed, as he thought of the relief he would have, sinking into her. His eternal love. Victoria was waiting. She'd known he would come, had been expecting him since she returned home, refusing Max or Eustacia to accompany her. She sent Verbena away, gave the servants the night off. She wanted to be alone when he came. As he brushed against the side of the bed, she felt her breathing change. It was no longer hers. They drew in together, exhaled together. She opened her eyes and looked at him. He was Phillip... beloved Phillip. She reached for him, and he fell onto the bed. He kissed her, touched her, pulled the gown from her shoulders, and she let him. She allowed herself the desire, the comfort. She felt it when he changed: the edge to his breath, the harshness of his pulse storming through her. The slip of his control. His eyes glinted rosy, and when he raised his face, his fangs glinted dull white and lethal. But his voice was Phillip's. Unchanged. Familiar. Loving. "Let me, Victoria, my wife," he murmured... as he had done before. "I will be very gentle... and soon you will feel only pleasure. We will be together forever. My destiny." When his incisors scraped over her flesh, at the tender joint of neck and shoulder, readying to sink in, she stiffened... sighed. Closed her eyes. Tears leaked from them. She groped in the sheets, closed her fingers around the smooth wood. "I will always love you, Phillip." And she stabbed him. When she opened her wet eyes, she saw someone standing in the door of her chamber. Max. His stake was outlined by the moonlight. "I followed him." "I knew he would come." He bowed his head, then looked up at her. "You saved him. You stopped him in time." "I hope." She drew in her breath. "You were right about it all, Max." "For that, and for this, I am sorry." "You were right about me-I am a foolish woman." "No. You are a Venator." A year later, Victoria is back on the stree of Drury Lane were strewn with refuse and scattered with the occasional thief, prostitute, and other such dodgy persons. Unfortunately, none of said dodgy persons were wreaking any havoc, picking any pockets, or biting any necks. Now a year had passed since Lilith had left London, and Victoria was back on the streets hunting for vampires for the first time since the night she'd removed her vis bulla. She'd spent the last twelve months practicing her fighting skills, learning to control the rage and grief that had driven her to nearly kill the man in St. Giles. She wanted to be sure she was ready, and able to temper those emotions before reinserting her strength amulet. The silver cross shivered in the hollow of her navel when she walked, and Victoria felt complete again. She was ready. Which was why she'd been taking to the streets late at night, stake in one hand, pistol in her other. Looking for something to do. Someone to save.

She would never stop looking for someone to save. Victoria shook her head abruptly to dislodge the memory and chase away the guilt that still crawled along her nerves. Her temple scraped against the brick, sending crumbles of mortar dusting to the ground and a dull pain over her skin. And she returned her thoughts to the matter at hand. Barth would be along shortly in his hackney to pick her up and take her back to the echoingly empty Rockley estate known as St. Heath's Row. No sooner had she had the thought than the hackney in question rumbled around the corner and came to a rather slower stop than usual. It wasn't that Barth's driving had improved-it was that he'd been combing the streets, looking for Victoria. As she climbed into the carriage, she made the decision she'd been putting off for a week. "Barth, I'm not ready to go home yet... Take me to St. Giles. To the Chalice." And before he could protest, she closed the door. There was a bit of a wait, as though he was considering arguing, but then she heard Barth cluck to the horses and she lurched as they started off at a smart pace. Victoria settled back in her seat and tried not to think about the last time she'd been to the Silver Chalice. More than a year ago. It was well past midnight, and the streets of St. Giles were deserted. Only very foolish or very brave people ventured into this area of London during the relative protection of daylight; at night, even fewer would dare to trespass. As they rumbled along St. Martin's Lane, and crossed the intersection of the seven roads known as the Dials, Victoria cast her glance down one of them. She had not forgotten Great St. Andrew's Street, nor even the block, where she'd nearly killed the man. She could find it again in her sleep, for though she did not recall the actual event in all of its terrible detail, the location had imprinted itself on her brain. Perhaps someday she would return. Several streets later, the hackney jerked to a stop, drawing her from her uncomfortable reverie. Anticipating the jolt, Victoria had already put out a hand to brace herself. Lifting the small lantern from the interior wall, she ducked out of the vehicle and slipped away before Barth could speak or follow her. Her feet were soundless on the cobbled street as they skirted piles of trash and stepped over small puddles left from an early-evening rain. The stench no longer bothered her, nor did the weight of eyes peering from the shadows. Let them come. She was ready for a fight. Across the street and down she walked, head held high, hand on her pistol, the legs of her men's breeches swishing faintly against each other, the lantern light slicing through her shadow. A welcome summer breeze lifted the smell of rotting carcasses and animal waste back to her consciousness, then brushed on away. The back of her neck cooled slightly under the beaver topper she wore, but it was from the wind, rather than a sign of approaching danger. Victoria stood in front of what had been the doorway to the Silver Chalice. She had not visited the place since the night she came looking for Phillip, and found instead the smoldering ruins of what had been an establishment that served vampires and mortals alike. Did she imagine it, or was the oaky smell of ash still on the air? It couldn't be, all these months later... The chill had returned to the back of her neck. She froze, stopping her breath to listen. To feel. Yes, it was there. It was real, raising the hair on her nape in a warning she hadn't felt for a twelvemonth: A vampire was near. Below. Now, the rush of anticipation fueling her actions, Victoria climbed over the rickety remains of the doorframe and started down the steps into the cavernous chamber. She felt along the stones with her left hand whilst her right carried the lantern, shining onto the wood and stone rubble that littered the steps. If she could have approached without the illumination, she would have done so; but seeing in the dark was not one of the gifts bestowed upon Venators. Some of the element of surprise would be diminished, but that was better than trying to make her way through the mess silently, and in the dark. Miraculously, the ceiling had not completely caved in over the stairs, and she soon found herself at the bottom. Victoria paused, thrusting the lantern behind her to block some of its light, and peered around the corner into the dark, misshapen cellar. What was left of Sebastian's place. Although the tingle at the back of her neck still played there, confirming her instinct, she did not feel or hear any sign of movement. She stilled, but for the fingers slipping into the deep pocket of her coat. The stake felt comfortable in her hand, but she did not withdraw it yet. She let her grip close around the wood, warm from her body, and waited, listening and feeling. The chill on her neck edged colder, and she breathed the proximity of the vampire and the impending exhilaration of battle. Her heart rate picked up speed, and her nostrils flared, as if to smell the presence of an undead. At last, satisfied that she was alone in the chamber, Victoria drew the lamp forth. Shining it around, she saw the same scene of destruction that had greeted her months ago; but now, her mind was not numbed by fear and

apprehension. Now she saw the blackened ceiling beams, the splintered tables and broken glasses... Perhaps she even smelled the faint tinge of blood in the air. The lantern bobbed as she climbed over a fractured chair, and glass crunched like gravel beneath her feet. She was making her way toward the innermost, darkest part of the wall, hidden under a lowering ceiling. The growing sensation at the back of her neck told her she was moving in the right direction. Sebastian Vioget had disappeared the night the Silver Chalice burned. Max had been there too that night, and he told Victoria he didn't know whether Sebastian had escaped from the fire; and she knew that he didn't give a whit what had happened either way. Victoria knew she shouldn't care either... but she had not been able to forget the bronze-haired man who welcomed vampires into his establishment. He'd once told Victoria that it was better to know them and to offer them a place where they might find ease, where their tongues might loosen and information might be gained... She found the secret door Sebastian had taken her through the very first night she'd met him. Tucked away under a low stone ceiling and set in among the stone walls, it remained fairly unscathed. Marked with black streaks, it was ajar. And the cold at her nape tingled more sharply. Victoria pushed through the door, leaving the lantern at the entrance of the passageway. She felt the weight of the pistol in her pocket as it bumped against the edge of stone-the pistol, useless against a vampire, of course, but helpful for other purposes. In the dark, narrow passageway, Victoria couldn't help but remember facing Sebastian, with the damp brick behind her, and him much too close for propriety's sake as he reached to sweep off the hat of her gentleman's disguise. He hadn't kissed her that time. Moving down the faintly lit hallway, quickly, as though to leave the thoughts behind her, Victoria made her way to the small room on the left, the one Sebastian had used as an office and sitting room. He, she, it, or they... were in this room. Her lips curled in a feral smile and adrenaline kicked up her pulse. She had been ready for this for months. The door was ajar, giving her the opportunity to peer around into the room. It was lit from within; only a large lantern could illuminate the chamber well enough for her to see the intricate brocade design on the sofa from where she stood. Interesting that a vampire or two would use a lantern. From what she could see through the open door, the room had been untouched by the fire, with the exception of a lingering smoke smell that had likely been trapped in the couch and chair upholstery. There was no sign of any disturbance... The books were still lining shelves, the pillows perfectly arranged on the furniture... Even the silver tray with the brandy and sherry bottles was in place across the room. The only things out of place were the two figures bent over Sebastian's desk. At least one vampire. Slipping the stake from her pocket, Victoria let it hang behind the folds of her jacket and stepped into the room. "Good evening, gentlemen," she said as they turned. "Are you looking for something?" Her year of grief had made her a bit slow. One of them was at her before she expected it, his eyes bloodred and his incisors flashing. Victoria stepped back, felt the wall behind her, and twisted away. He followed, and she tripped over the leg of a chair, nearly stumbling to the floor. The error made her more determined, and the skills Kritanu had taught her came flooding back to her muscles like the fit of a well-worn glove. When Victoria gained her balance, the vampire was reaching for her, inadvertently opening his chest to her driving stake. She slammed it in, felt the familiar pop and stepped back as he disintegrated into dust. Barely breathing hard, she looked up at the other man, who'd not moved. He watched her with a twitch of a smile, but he'd not changed. Instead, he adjusted his jacket and looked at her with glinting black eyes. "Came prepared, did you?" he asked, walking easily from around the other side of the desk. Coming closer, but easy. Unthreatening, and unthreatened. "What are you doing here?" Victoria wanted some answers before she staked him too. It could be no coincidence that they'd both chosen this night to visit Sebastian's rooms; and by the amount of dust here, and the neatness of the room, she gathered this was the first visit anyone had made. "Merely curiosity." He stood so that the sofa was between them. "This is what remains of the infamous Silver Chalice. I was interested in seeing the place owned by Sebastian Vioget." His fangs had not protruded; his eyes remained an unexceptional gray. "Do you know him?" she asked. The vampire, who was no taller than most other men in London, had nondescript brown hair brushed back from his face. His nose, a bit too large to make his face attractive, rounded on the end like a garlic bulb. And his brows were straight, narrow strips over his eyes. He shook his head in response to her question. "I'm afraid I haven't the pleasure of meeting Monsieur Vioget. From what I have heard, I'm not altogether certain it is any longer possible to do so." "I haven't seen a vampire here in London for months," Victoria said, watching him. "Since Lilith took herself and her followers off. Did she send you back to ascertain whether it was safe for her to return?"

He looked at her for a moment; then recognition shifted into his dark eyes. Not red, not yet. They were normal. He looked like nothing more than an average English gentleman, except for his ill-fitting clothing. "You are the woman Venator." Victoria bowed her head in acknowledgment. His eyes narrowed thoughtfully. "What a coup it would be for me to bring you to Nedas. He would reward me greatly." A spike of anticipation jolted through her. "You could certainly attempt it. I'm certain that whoever Nedas is, he would appreciate your martyrdom." "I'm not quite as capricious as my dearly departed companion," he replied. "But I am much stronger and faster." Then he was there, across the room, next to her, reaching for her throat. Victoria spun away, but he grabbed at her arm, and he was indeed strong. She tried to wrench away, caught in his suddenly glowing red eyes, and felt the sofa against her legs. She pretended to stumble, dodged, and knocked him off balance. He came after her again, close behind, without giving her a chance to catch her breath, and the next thing she knew, she was whirling back to face him. Raising her stake at shoulder level, she lifted her face to look at him, ready to slam it home, and faltered. Phillip. It was Phillip. It was as if her body had turned to ice, and then raging fire. The stake fell from her limp fingers and the scream was knocked out of her as he shoved her aside, sending her to the floor. On the rug, dragging dust and lint into her panicked breath, Victoria looked up at the figure looming over her. How? But it wasn't Phillip who bent over her. It was the same nondescript man, now with glowing eyes and a determined line for a mouth. She scrabbled for her stake... Surely it hadn't rolled far on the rug. He lunged for her and she twisted away, suddenly trapped against the edge of the sofa. She felt something under her hip, round and hard and long, and rolled sharply away, toward his feet, grabbing the stake. The force of her motion upset him, and Victoria propelled herself to her feet, stick in hand. She turned, using the momentum of her leg to whip around, then shifted her center of balance as she plunged the stake into the center of his chest. She pulled it away, stepping back to watch him dust to the floor. Nothing happened. And he came at her again, his mouth drawn in a frightening, feral smile. Victoria recoiled in shock, stumbling backward, and tripped over the flipped-up corner of the thick Persian rug. She tumbled to the floor, slamming her head against the wall as she fell, and stared up at the red-eyed man who advanced toward her. Calm and steady he moved and Victoria could barely get her mind around the fact that she'd stabbed him, sunk a stake into his chest, and nothing had happened. Neither blood nor dust... he'd just come after her again.

COLLEEN GLEASON lives near Ann Arbor with her husband and children. She has an English degree and an MBA from the University of Michigan. Before writing full-time, she worked in the sales and marketing side of health care and insurance products. She has managed large sales forces, worked in start-up companies, and owned her own business.

