Max stepped away from the table. What was Victoria waiting for? "You seem particularly interested in its fate," he replied. Perhaps giving it to Vioget would draw her out. "Did you not come for it as well?" "What would I do with such a book? I won't stop you from taking it, Maximilian," Vioget told him. "I don't wish Lilith to have it any more than you do." Before Max could reply, or make sense of that comment, he heard something that drew his attention from the matter at hand. From outside of the open window... a shout, a low scream. Victoria? He dashed to the window, yanking back the curtains. She was gone. He looked down and in the darkness, broken only by a partial moon, he heard rather than saw an altercation below. She'd gone out the window and gotten herself into a fight. She'd probably been gone the whole time he was fighting the Guardians. Max cast a quick glance at Vioget, who'd turned, but made no move toward the window. "Go. The book will be safe here." Max trusted Sebastian Vioget like he trusted a beggar in a room with a case of gems, but he had no choice. If he couldn't touch it, neither could Vioget. Max looked out the window. If Victoria could go out this way, so could he. Chapter Twelve

Our Heroes Commence with Much Poofing and Slicing There were ten of them. And that was after Victoria had staked two; so an even dozen to begin with, plus the two that were in the house. With Sebastian. Blast! Sebastian was here! She tripped the vampire with bared teeth who came at her with his eyes glowing, and he went sprawling over the garden bench she'd been sitting on only a short time before. Whirling to face the one coming up behind her, she stabbed at him, missed, and kept her momentum going until she got the one behind him in the chest. Poof! Nine to go. The only good thing about there being so many was that they couldn't all jump on her at once; there wasn't enough room... so if she could just hold one or two off at a time, and send them to their destiny with her ash stick, maybe she could hang on untilVictoria stifled an un-Venator-like shriek as something landed on top of her from the tree above. Make that ten left, she thought as her face slammed into the ground. Her breath knocked out of her for a moment, she couldn't move. But when she felt him, or her, pulling her lopsided twist of hair away from her neck, she found new strength. Kicking back with the heel of her foot, she caught the vampire at the base of the neck, hard, and then a second time in rapid succession, but she was unable to dislodge him. Victoria felt a clawing of panic when another vampire swooped down and, crouching next to her, grasped one wrist in each hand, immobilizing her. Her nerveless fingers released the stakes she held. Her cold neck suddenly felt bare and vulnerable, and she twisted and fought with less skill and more blind panicopposite the way Kritanu had trained her. One hand grasped a hank of her hair, pulling back, baring her throat as a knee in the base of her back kept her hips grinding into the ground with her struggles. She swallowed a thick, choking sob, difficult to do when one's neck was craned backward, looking up into the fiery eyes of a blood-craving undead, and gave one last thrust of effort. Wham! She brought both heels up as hard and fast as she could, her hips coming off the ground, and knocked the vampire forward so that he lost his balance and jostled into the one who held her wrists. Victoria, huddled under two vampires struggling to gain their balance, twisted frantically and tried to slip from underneath, but strong hands grabbed her ankles, and all she could do was buck at the hips. Then she felt a stirring in the air, a new presence, and in an instant her ankles were released. The unmistakable swish, the faintest crunch, and another poof. The one who'd been on her back was gone. Her wrists were free, and she rolled half to one side to grab one of her stakes just as another vampire lunged toward her. She lifted the stake and he impaled himself. She leaped to her feet, pushing the hair from her eyes just in time to see Max stake two more undead in one smooth, brutal motion. And then there was silence. It was just the two of them, facing each other, breathing heavily, grasping lengths of pointed wood in the garden of Redfield Manor. "You didn't touch the book." "What in the blazes were you doing?" They both spoke at the same time.

Then silence again. His face, harsh and handsome in the shadowy light, glistened with a stripe of perspiration. He whipped it away from where it clung to the edge of his jaw. Victoria slipped her stake back into its loop at her waist and, using both hands, pulled all of her heavy hair back from where it drooped over her face and shoulders. Verbena was going to have to find a better way to contain it, or she was going to cut it all off. Long hair flying in her face was a liability, and she couldn't chance its obstructing her view as it had tonight. Max stepped toward her, looming tall, blocking what little of the moon showed as he bent closer. One hand came up and grasped her jaw before she realized what he was doing, turning her head to one side, his long fingers sliding along her chin and brushing down the side of her throat. "You're not hurt," he said, then released her and stepped back. Several steps back. "You didn't touch the book," she said again, resisting the urge to rub the skin he'd just touched. "No. You told me not to. It's still inside, I believe. How many did you get?" His breathing had slowed, but the harsh, measuring look was still on his face. A dip of too-long hair brushed one cheekbone near a narrowed eye. "Five, perhaps six. I lost count. There were twelve out here, and another two inside." "I got the two inside. And four out here. There are still at least two." He turned to look up at the window from which Victoria had escaped the room. "But they've gone off. You climbed down that tree?" Victoria nodded, then bent to pick up her other stake. Her breathing had gone back to normal, and it was just sinking in that not only had she been overwhelmed by the number of vampires and nearly lost the battle, but that Sebastian was the houseguest who let them in. What was he doing here? She dared not ask Max; to do so would be to admit that she knew Sebastian, and she was fairly certain that would be in violation of their agreement. "Tell me what you know about the book." "It's going to be stolen tonight by two-or more-undead. Once they remove it from the house of its owner, it is safe for us to take. But if a mortal takes it, touches it to steal it, he or she will die." Max stared at her for a moment. "Where did you learn this interesting bit of information?" "We should not be standing here," Victoria replied, starting to walk toward the front of the house. "If there are at least two vampires left, they are still after the book. We will have to take it from them once they leave the house." "Victoria." His voice was pitched threateningly, meant to stop her. But she paid him no heed and continued toward the front side of the house. If she stood in a certain place, she could see the front doorway and remain hidden... whilst also having a view of the garden. Max stalked after her; she couldn't see him, but could feel the annoyance in the way he moved, silently, but purposefully in her tracks. She picked a place in the shadows of a spreading oak, standing behind its trunk. Max stood just behind her, looking over her head. A piece of bark drifted onto her shoulder from where his fingers touched the tree. "Victoria, where did you learn this information?" "It doesn't matter. And besides, I have not asked you how you learned what you know," she replied, still looking straight ahead at the house, trying not to shift. He was right behind her. "Do you think they will remove the book tonight?" "I don't have the same information you apparently have received, but it would be" my expectation that they will not return to Lilith without the book." "Undead have to remove it from the house. If there are only two or three of them, we should have no trouble relieving them of their burden." "Theoretically, yes." They fell silent, waiting, watching, breathing steadily and smoothly at last. And then... Victoria started when Max's hand appeared in her periphery, a finger, pointing silently. Three of them, walking toward the house, in the center of the street as if they owned it. Broad, tall, long hair gusting with each stride. Even from where she was, Victoria saw the whiteness of their skin, the deep, violet-red glow of narrowed eyes. And the long glint of metal swords drooping from their hands. Her neck felt as if a wedge of ice were pressed against it. Her stomach tightened and she surreptitiously rubbed her damp palm against the rough bark of the tree. "Imperial vampires." Max's voice was in her ear, barely audible. But she hadn't needed to be told; Victoria already knew. The vampires closest to Lilith, closer than her elite retinue of Guardians, and so powerful they could pull the life energy from their victims without using their fangs-just their eyes. Lilith was indeed taking no chances. They didn't move as the Imperials approached Redfield Manor. It was fortunate they were downwind from the vampires, and that there was a gentle breeze. It might keep the three from scenting her and Max. Victoria watched them, her neck burning with chill. They were still a distance away, but even now she could feel the power, the hate... the evil. She stifled a shiver.

For the first time she was truly glad Max was there. The Book of Antwartha was still inside the house, and would need to be removed by one of the undead, for Sebastian would not have been able to take it. But why was he here? Lilith knew that she and Max would do anything to stop her from getting' the book. Perhaps there were even more surprises awaiting them tonight. Victoria had an uneasy feeling that although they were prepared, the queen of the vampires was one step ahead of them. If she had gone to Aunt Eustacia or Max to share what she knew, they might have been better able to plan their strategy. After all, Max had some experience with Imperials. But Victoria had gone solo, and so had Max, and now they were at the mercy of Lilith's determination. How did one fight an Imperial? Her heart seemed to pound through her whole body. Surely the vampires must sense it! As if reading her thoughts, one of the Imperials paused at the stoop of Redfield Manor, turning toward them and sniffing the air. Victoria held her breath and felt Max tense against her. Then the vampire turned back to his companions, and they separated. Two went up the steps, and the one who'd faced them remained at the bottom, standing near the street. The length of his sword was a third leg, stretching from hip to ground. The door of Redfield Manor opened and the two Imperials went in. The third was alone. She nearly jumped when Max's fingers closed around her arm and he breathed into the vicinity of her ear, "Me first. Wait; then you follow." Without waiting for her response, he stepped from the shadow of the tree and began to walk boldly toward the Imperial. He had no sword, no weapon but the ash stakes and a long, slender branch that had a jagged end. Victoria watched as the Imperial turned to face Max striding across the grass that had somehow become damp. His burning eyes no more than slits, the vampire stood ready. Even from her distance, in the glance of light from the moon, Victoria could see the smirk of readiness, the indolent stance that said he was ready for a fight. When Max came within two arms' breadth, the Imperial lifted his sword. Yes, he had brutal strength that matched Max's, but to fight a Venator, who carried a pike of wood that held death, Lilith took no chances. She armed her vampires with metal pikes, swords. Thus they were evenly matched. Wood to metal. Holy strength to inhuman might. Victoria understood Max's plan, and though her heart picked up speed as she saw the two tall, broad figures face each other, she waited. The Imperial would have scented their presence; by Max announcing himself and approaching the vampire, it was obvious he hoped Victoria would remain unnoticed. Metal glinted in the light, and Victoria saw that they were engaged, fighting for life. Or undeath. She'd been wrong. They were not evenly matched. Max had the disadvantage. The skin of her palms dampened. While his weapon would kill only if he got a clear slice through the chest, the sword wielded by the Imperial was lethal in any manner. And if he drew blood, its smell would attract the other Imperials and Guardians from inside Redfield Manor... and any that lurked on the streets. They moved as if choreographed, seeming to leap and almost glide through the air at times, blocking and thrusting, each with their staff of death, spinning, leaping, banking off a nearby tree one time; gliding up the side of the house and down another time. Almost as if they were puppets on strings, lifting into the air and careening back toward each other in lethal ballet movements. She watched, amazed, as Max seemed to skim and glide on the air in the graceful movements of an art form she had not yet learned. She kept her eyes trained on them, praying she would know when to step from the shadows and come to his aid. Praying she would be quick enough. And then the constant ice at the back of her neck changed, pulling her attention from the battle. She felt something behind her and turned just in time, her stake at waist height. With a quick thrust she jabbed it up and into the chest of the very ordinary vampire who'd had the foolishness to come up behind a tense Venator, a woman who he'd thought would be easy pickings. That would be his last street hunt. Victoria turned back around, realizing that her movement would have alerted the Imperial to her presence, just in time to see his long metal blade arc through the air and tumble to the ground. In a move that took her breath away, Max vaulted from the vampire and snatched up the blade. Straightening, he turned and, with one clean swipe, cleaved the Imperial's head from his neck. The vampire poofed. All was still. Except for Victoria's ramming heart and dragging breaths. Max turned as she came across the grass toward him. "One down. Two to go," he said, meeting her halfway. To her great annoyance, he was barely out of breath. "We're better matched now. You take that side. I'll take this one." He gestured to the boxwoods that flanked the stoop of

the house. "You were flying." He looked at her, eyebrows raised. "In a manner of speaking, yes. As much as you might think you know, you still have much to learn, Victoria. Now take your place." "Wait." She grabbed his arm, her breathing steadier now. Something shiny dampened his sleeve, and she saw that it had been sliced open and blood spilled. "He got you." "Of course he did," Max snapped, pulling his arm back to his side and stepping into the protective shadow of another tree. "How else was I to distract him to twist the sword from his grip? One quick flip of my stake at that angle and he had to drop it." Under his annoyance there was an air of satisfaction and smugness. "Congratulations," Victoria replied just as briskly. "But if we don't bind it up and stanch the bleeding, it'll attract every other undead in the vicinity... not to mention the ones inside with Sebastian." She could have bitten her tongue, but that would have meant more blood scent on the air. And Max wasn't about to allow it to slip by. "How do you know his name?" He rounded on her. Victoria refused to be cowed. "Later, Max. First, let's take care of-" But she never finished her sentence. The door beyond them opened and two Imperial vampires stood at the top of the stoop. The vampires had to step out of the house, carrying the book, before it would be safe for Victoria and Max to take it from them. They exchanged looks under shadow of the boxwoods, satisfying themselves that the other understood this. Although the first Imperial paused at the door's threshold, he did not wait long; the one behind him appeared just at his shoulder and they both stepped out. Their hands were empty but for the swords they still carried. They looked around as if searching for their missing colleague; since he'd popped into ash, they would see no sign of him. But perhaps they would smell the lingering dust in the air. The Imperials strode down the steps, only feet away from Max and Victoria-they must smell them, Max's blood, too, for certain-looking around, the nostrils of one flaring as if testing the air for scent. Just as one turned toward the bushy, shoulder-high boxwood that sheltered them, Max leaped from behind it, brandishing the sword, and beheaded the vampire in another clean stroke. As the third and last Imperial whirled about, holding his own silver blade, another face peered around the doorway. Victoria saw him and crashed from behind the shrub, dashing up the steps before he could close the door. He came out onto the stoop to meet her, and she saw that he was not carrying the book himself; but that did not matter, as now she had to fight him to his death. Or hers. Dimly, through her own battle with the Guardian vampire, she was aware of the fierce clashing of swords below as Max and the Imperial faced off. A shout, and the one moment of distraction caused her to glance away. The next thing she knew, her opponent had her by the waist. He lifted and threw her so she half stumbled and half flew down the steps, landing in a breathless heap on the ground near Max and the other vampire. She scrambled to her feet just as Max shouted her name; this time it was clear, and she looked over in time to see him point behind her; then he was back into the throes of defending himself. Victoria turned and saw the figure of a man dropping from an open window of the house, carrying something large and bulky under his arm. She turned, and before she could lift her foot to take a step, she was knocked to the ground, facedown on the grass. Groping hands, colder than the chill at the back of her neck, curled around her hair and pulled it from her nape. She whipped her hand around behind her and stabbed at the vampire. Instead of plunging into his heart, the point of her stake popped into his eye like a stick into a plump grape. He cried out and she slipped from under him, staggering to her feet. With only the briefest of glances at the embattled Max, she took off running. Victoria ran faster than she had ever imagined a human could run; the vis bulla had to be helping her. Or perhaps it was Divine Providence. Whatever it was, she managed to keep the running vampire in her sight. He wasn't too far ahead of her; when they reached the corner of a mews he took a sharp turn, and she followed, plunging into a dark, narrow alley lined with thick bushes and shrubs that blocked what little illumination the partial moon offered. Her night vision wasn't as powerful as that of a vampire, nor did she have the sense of smell... but she pushed her way blindly down the passageway. She couldn't stop-if she lost him, the book was lost. It was Lilith's. She could not let that happen. When she got to the end of the mews, Victoria had to pause. Which way had he gone? Nowhere to be seen... then the ever-present chill at the back of her neck heightened, and she felt him behind her. He'd ducked into the brush to wait for her to pass. His mistake. She turned and started back slowly. He wouldn't be able to squeeze all the way through the bushes; they were too dense, and on one side was the wall of a garden. She was thankful he was only a Guardian, and not an Imperial,

some of whom could shape-shift. Guardians were fierce fighters and had strong pulls of energy, but they were more easily bested than an Imperial. There he was. She turned, thrust into the brush, and felt something solid. Not his chest-he leaped out and they were suddenly grappling on the ground, rolling across the pebbled pathway and into the brush. He had his hands around her neck; he wasn't wasting his time going for a bite, she thought as they tightened. Her breathing became more difficult, and the edges of her already dark vision clouded more. She grasped the stake. One shot... Her fingers felt soft and wobbly. She clasped them, ordering them to tighten even as her mind fizzled. Wham! She struck as she had earlier, and got him in the eye. Two blinded vampires to her credit tonight; but that wasn't enough. Victoria rolled to her feet as he pulled himself up, one hand over the injured eye, struck... and then he was gone. Poof. Panting, Victoria stood for a moment to catch her breath. Drawing the oxygen back into her lungs, she thought nothing had ever felt so good. And she listened. Nothing. Silence. Only the faint rumble of a horse clopping on a distant street. The book. He had to have dropped it. Victoria grappled through the brush until she found it. She reached, hesitated, then, holding her breath, picked it up. Nothing happened. With a sigh of relief, she hitched up the bulky bag and tucked it under her arm. Now what? Should she go back and see if Max needed help? What if he didn't? What if he'd been... No, she'd best get the book safely home, and then she would find out what happened to Max. If he was all right. God, she hoped he was all right. If he wasn't, it had been a noble sacrifice. If he wasn't, she was on her own. Victoria stepped from the mews and into the open night. Chapter Thirteen

The Marquess Makes an Unwelcome Announcement A hired hackney-not Barth's-took her home. Victoria kept the Book of Antwartha on the seat next to her in the carriage and tried not to think about Max. As he'd taken great pains to impress upon her, he was more than capable of taking care of himself. And she knew he would rather she take care of the book, now that it was in their possession, than take a chance on losing it while coming to his aid. When the hackney reached Grantworth House, Victoria alighted quickly, carrying the heavy bag under one arm and slamming the door of the carriage behind her. The windows of the house were dark except for the one lamp burning in the front parlor window. It was nearly four o'clock; her mother should have arrived home from the ball she'd attended by now and likely was snoring in her bed. Victoria slapped a coin in the hand of the driver and turned to start up the steps to her house. And felt a blast of chill over the back of her neck. Bloody hell. Again? She groped for the stake she hadn't thought she'd need again this night and turned to look up the street. Now her entire body went cold. Her mother was home, indeed. But she wasn't in her bed sleeping. No. The Grantworth carriage sat gleaming green and gold under the street lamp, where it should not be. And the man sitting in the driver's seat, holding the reins of the abnormally still horses, was not the Grantworth groom. Victoria glanced reflexively down at the bundle she held, then immediately back at the carriage. How many were there? How could she fight them with one hand holding the book? She couldn't put it down. "Venator!" shouted a voice. Victoria turned and saw four vampires-Guardians, she judged, based on the fact that their eyes were more ruby than garnet-stepping from behind the carriage. One of them, a tall, crimson-haired woman, had spoken. "I hope I haven't kept you from your nightly excursions," Victoria replied with a calmness she did not feel. "It took a bit longer than I planned to finish this evening's task." As she spoke, she was looking around, her mind calculating

even as she straggled to comprehend that her mother was in the custody of five vampires. How many of the damned creatures were there in London? The absurd thought was a testament to her weariness and frustration; but Victoria could not indulge it now. Mother was in the carriage and Victoria had to save her. The crimson-haired vampire now stood close enough that Victoria could smell her dusky, dusty, dry scent. Taking care not to look her directly in the burning eyes, Victoria readied herself for any sudden moves. The other vampires flanked behind her in a vee arrangement. "We provided your mother with an escort home this evening," the leader said in an unhurried tone that matched Victoria's. "She is well; we've resisted the urge to feed on her until now, Venator, because we knew that if you succeeded in your task and obtained the Book of Antwartha, you'd need a compelling reason to turn it over to us." With a flick of her chin she gestured, and the carriage door opened. Lady Melly stumbled out, tangled skirts and all, tripping as she tried to descend the steps. But she was well, unharmed except for the bruises she would likely have on her knees and elbows from the fall. "I can't give you the book," she said simply. "But I can give you your life... such as it is. If you prefer to keep it, and not to go the way of... oh, a dozen of your colleagues, you'll just toddle off into the night and find another tired Venator to harass." If there were any other Venators in London... tired or not. In the back of her mind, she heard Big Ben strike four. In sixty minutes or a bit more, the sun would begin to rise... Could Victoria stall them long enough? And then a hackney cab turned the corner, bumbling along at an unusually fast clip. Victoria recognized its driver. What was Barth doing here? But before she could form the question, the cab dashed by without pause, and a splash of water burst from its open window, catching four of the vampires. Suddenly they were screaming and clawing at themselves wherever the water had touched them. Almost before she grasped the fact that someone-Verbena, perhaps-had dashed a bucket of holy water on them, she flew into motion with her stake. By the time she'd stabbed two of the undead, the hackney had turned around and come back. Another splash of water drenched the vampire sitting in the driver's seat, and a smaller wave fell onto the last two companions standing in the street. They were in such agony, it was easy-too easy-to take care of them; but Victoria didn't have the energy even to feel grateful for the simple, satisfying ending to a busy night. Barth's hackney finally stopped next to her on the street, as Victoria wrapped one arm around her blank-faced, uncharacteristically silent mother and the other around the precious bundle of an ancient tome and worked her way up the steps to Grantworth House. A frightened Lady Melly was just one of several things Victoria would have to deal with in the morning, not to mention what to do now that she had the Book of Antwartha-and the fact that her engagement was to be announced at a ball that evening. But for now... she wanted the comfort of her feather bed, and a safe place to hide the book. And the assurance that Max had survived the night. As it turned out, handling Lady Melly was much easier than Victoria had anticipated. Verbena, who had indeed flung the holy water on the vampires, prepared and administered a sleeping draft for her that dropped her like a stone. By the time Victoria woke in the morning, Aunt Eustacia had arrived at Grantworth House. She'd been summoned by Max, who had indeed survived his third Imperial in one night and who had arrived at Grantworth House only moments after Victoria hustled her mother off to bed. He'd come for his own assurances, of course; and once notified by the suddenly important Verbena that her mistress was home, unhurt, and in possession of the object of Lilith's desire, Max slipped off into the night, presumably to seek his own feather bed. Aunt Eustacia had her own ways of dealing with the shock of vampire victims. Holding a small gold disk etched with a spiral design in front of her niece's face, she spun and swung it until Melly's face grew blank and her eyes unfocused. "Why," asked Victoria when her great-aunt was finished erasing the memory of red-eyed, long-fanged undead from her mother, "must we do that? Would it not be better for those who aren't Venators to know what the risks are? To know that vampires do exist?" They were sitting in the parlor of Grantworth House; it was nearing noon, and it was the first moment the two women had had alone. "To have the panic spread, as it surely would? To give Lilith that added benefit of frightened humans, weakened by their fears? Or to give untrained, unprepared would-be heroes the false belief that they could kill and hunt vampires as easily as a Venator? To have unworthy ones call for their own vis bullae? No, Victoria, it is much better to keep the knowledge from those who are helpless to work against it. With the exception of a very few," she added as Verbena bustled into the room. Then her sharp black eyes focused unwaveringly on Victoria. "But it is no use changing the subject, my dear. I
