
pushed through people edging the dance floor. It would be faster to move through the dancing couples, but that would only cause a stir. Pray God her mother or her two cronies didn't see her! She kept her eye on the vampire's dark head, which was more difficult than when she'd been stalking Maximilian, for this man was only average height, and got lost among some of the other partygoers. The couple walked through an alcove, strolling at a comfortable pace, and turned down what appeared to be a hallway. Victoria's skirts wrapped around her ankles, and would have been flapping if they'd been made of something heavier than light chiffon. Bending quickly, she slipped her hand under the hem of her skirt and pulled the narrow wooden pike from its garter on her calf. The stake felt solid and comfortable in her hand. This one was more slender than the one she'd used to stake the vampire at her own coming-out party, but according to Aunt Eustacia, was just as potent as the thicker one. The trick was, she had told her, to find a stake that was light enough to carry and hide easily, but strong enough that it wouldn't break when being stabbed into the vampire's breastbone. Victoria hurried along the hallway, listening with her ears and her instincts. She wasn't sure which room they had disappeared into... but when the ice at the back of her neck became almost painful in its intensity, she paused outside an ajar door. He would be expecting her; but stealth wasn't as imperative as skill and cunning. Could he sense her in the same way she could sense him? He must, or how else would he have known her? She toed the door open and waited. From her vantage point in the hallway, near the wall, she could see into the chamber. It appeared to be a den. A fire burned across the way, and several large sofas flanked a red-and-orange Persian rug. A glimmer of movement caught her eye, and she watched as the faint shadow shifted. Was the shadow the vampire... or his victim, acting as a lure? The vampire could be hiding behind the door, waiting for Victoria. She knew how to solve that. She kicked the door hard, and it swung open, slamming into the wall behind it and leaving the entire expanse of the room to her view. "Ah. I see you have found us." The woman sat on one of the settees, and the vampire stood menacingly behind her. Victoria's heart thumped. Here she was, face-to-face with an undead. No advantage of surprise-and the additional problem of a victim. Then she heard footsteps hurrying down the long hallway. And her name, called low, with urgency. "Miss Grantworth?" Good gad. Rockley! She leaped into the room and slammed the door shut, keeping her attention on the vampire, and her fingers wrapped around her stake. Drawing in a deep, cleansing breath as Kritanu had taught her, she froze in an offensive stance and looked at the vampire. "Release her," she said, gesturing with her head toward the woman, who'd not moved one whit. Scared stiff, she was. "I think not," the man purred. He stepped from around the settee and Victoria suddenly, fully understood what Aunt Eustacia meant when she spoke of the allure of the vampire. It crackled in the room, this awareness she felt, an inexorable drawing toward him. As if he held her strings in his hands and was tugging ever so gently. Without conscious thought, she dropped her hand to her belly and touched the vis bulla through the froth of her skirts. The headiness lessened. Her fingers gripped the stake. He stepped closer. His eyes, still normal, but gleaming with a fierceness she'd seen only once-in the gaze of a mad dog that had had to be shot-never left hers. A smile curled his mouth. "So you are the one. A woman Venator." "You seem to have the advantage of me," she replied coolly. "But that's no matter, as you won't be around long enough to enjoy it." A low laugh issued from his mouth, and she saw the gleam of fangs. His eyes narrowed, the pupils pinpointing and the irises burning pale pink, then delicate ruby red. "I've never had the taste of a Venator before. I'm sure it will be most fulfilling. Quite delectable." Without warning he launched himself toward her, moving with such lightning speed that it seemed as if he'd flown on a breath. His hands closed over her shoulders, taking her by surprise. She dropped the stake, and he laughed when it fell onto his boots. His grip was painful, his sharp nails digging into the soft parts of her shoulders as she struggled against the agony and the fear. Before you, there have been only three other female Venators in the last century of battle against Lilith. Two of them died hideous deaths shortly after they were inducted into the Legacy and received their vis bullae. She was damned if she was going to give Max the satisfaction of being the third. Victoria tipped her head back, then slammed her forehead into the face of the vampire, thanking Kritanu for making her practice this move so many times. She felt the squash of his hooked nose giving way beneath the onslaught, and his reaction to the pain allowed her to jerk from his grip. She lunged to the ground and closed her fingers around the smooth ash stick, but before she could rise, he recovered and sent her sprawling. Frothy pink skirts wrapped around her legs as she rolled onto her back; then they slid back like skates on ice as she

drew her knees to her chest and kicked out with both feet. She caught him in the chest as he rounded on her, and propelled him away into a small table. The table fell over, scattering its contents over the rug. The vampire landed on the floor and she followed him, rolling after him on the rough Persian rug, stake at the ready. She was just about to plunge it into his chest when something wrapped around her neck from behind: a strong, slender arm, ending in a white glove. Skirts of blue-a color that did not match Victoria's dress-tangled around her feet. As the arm pulled on her, Victoria slammed her head back, cracking into the woman's face. But the male vampire was reaching for her shoulders again, yanking her down toward his bared teeth. She kicked out with her feet, blindly, not in the measured way Kritanu had taught her, and felt panic begin to clamp her chest. Two of them! She'd been fooled again! She felt his hot breath on her neck, felt the tug of his calling, the promise that if she would just relax... just let go... there would be no pain, only pleasure. Ecstasy. Release. His breath hypnotized her; his burning eyes scored into her, promising. She vaguely felt a movement behind her, and then the jolt as he pushed someone away, growling in anger. The woman, she thought in the back of her mind. He wants me for himself. The smooth wood slipped from her fingers. He breathed again, drawing in her strength. Her head swam. She closed her eyes. Chapter Four

The Marquess's Thirst Remains Unquenched Maximilian brushed past the butler, who would have announced him if given the chance, and hurried down the wide, sweeping staircase at the Dunstead home. Two Guardian vampires on the loose and here he was, chasing down a novice Venator who was more concerned with filling her dance card and juggling beaux than wielding a stake. Only the slight chance that the vampires might find her first had convinced him that he must notify Miss Grantworth by tracking her down at a bloody dance. A quick scan around the crushed ballroom told him she was not attempting that ridiculous waltz. The back of his neck remained neutral: no vampires in the vicinity. Frowning, Max pushed around a cluster of tittering debutantes who gawked at him from behind fans in every shade of pink. He flung them a glower meant to send them cowering, but more than one of them looked at him with promise in her eyes and a pout on her lips. Blasted English twits. Nary a thought in their minds but what was in a man's purse or his pants. Or both. No wonder so many of them were targets of vampires. Easy marks. Max pushed through the room. He had the urge to leave, to get back on the street and track down the Guardians, but he also had to report to Eustacia that he'd first done his best to locate Victoria. He'd make his way through the entire perimeter of the room, perhaps stick his head out onto the terrace, as it wasn't out of the realm of possibility that the virginal Miss Grantworth had found an excuse to walk in the moonlight... and then he'd leave. He'd made his circuit and seen nothing of his quarry, and was just about to slip out onto the terrace when he felt the barest coolness on the back of his neck. Max stopped. The chill was faint, just barely there; but since there was no draft and his nape was thoroughly covered with a healthy mass of hair, there was no mistaking it. He looked around, scanning the room again, and then down the hallway that stretched away up five steps. There. He bounded up the steps and started down the hall that made an ell turn after only three doors. The hair on the back of his neck was standing now, and at least he knew he was on the trail. The fact that Victoria was missing from the ballroom intensified his urgency; she was either with the vampire-or vampires-or outside kissing one of her beaux. Either way, Max would have to handle the problem. A novice Venator was no match for a Guardian vampire; God help her if she was battling both of them. As he hurried down the hall, he saw one of the English fops Victoria had been swooning over at her ball. "Miss Grantworth?" the man called, tentatively opening one of the doors. Either he had an assignation with the girl or he was chasing her on her assignation. Regardless, Max had to get rid of him, for it was now obvious that Victoria was in this proximity. "Are you perchance looking for Miss Victoria Grantworth?" asked Max pleasantly, belying his urgency. His nape was positively icy. The man-the Marquess of Rockford or something of that nature-straightened as if caught with his hand down a lady's bodice. "Indeed I am." He looked at Max with a hint of challenge in his deep-set eyes. "I believe I just saw her walking that way... She appeared to be returning to the dance," Max told him. The last thing they needed was an interfering hero type, which was exactly what the Marquess of Wherever appeared to be. "She looked to be making much haste." The marquess measured him, then gave a brief nod. "My thanks to you, sir." Max barely waited until the man had passed him before hurrying off down the hall. His instincts pushed him on and

he knew when he found the right door. Flinging it open, he rushed in, pulling a stake from his pocket. He was just in time to see a vampire poof into dust across the room; but he had no chance to take in the details, for a second Guardian had turned as he burst in and flew toward him with instantaneous speed. He stopped her in midleap with a stake to the chest, and she was gone. Shutting the door behind him, for it had all happened so quickly he'd left it wide-open, he stepped in and surveyed the scene. Victoria was in a tumble of skirts on the floor; but she was pulling herself to her feet by the time he took two steps. Her curling black hair was still anchored high at the back of her head, intertwined with some fripperies that appeared to glint when she moved. One thick corkscrew had escaped and fell over a white shoulder. The delicate fabric of her skirts was crinkled beyond repair, and her fair English skin cast a paler glow than usual. "Maximilian," she said, standing straight, holding on to the back of a settee. He noticed that her hand trembled ever so slightly as she pushed away a loose black wave that dipped over her eye. "How fortuitous that you should arrive just in time to see my great escape. Or"-she lowered her chin and looked at him from under her lashes-"was it that you came to rescue me? Sir Stakes-a-Lot saving the helpless damsel?" She was white. And the faint quaver in her voice gave away her strain. And... "Bloody hell!" Max was at her side, roughly pushing away the errant black curl that hid... "You've been bitten!" "Ouch!" She jerked away, still clutching the settee. "I'm well aware of that... and it hurts, so don't touch it!" Maximilian ignored her and pulled her toward one of the gas lamps so he could get a better look. "He didn't feed much." He smoothed his fingers gently over her warm skin, feeling the steady pumping of her vein under his rough fingerpads. When he brought his hand away, a smudge of crimson colored his fingers. "Damnation!" He jammed his hand in his pocket and scrabbled his fingers around until they pulled out the vial. "Do be still, Victoria," he snapped, twisting the cork from the small bottle. He pushed her head none too gently aside so he could see the wound. Before she could react, he had sprinkled the four small red circles of the bite with the water. Victoria shrieked in pain and jumped away, clapping her hand over the wound. "What are you doing?" "Washing the bite with holy water and salt, of course. And yes, it does sting, but it's the only recourse at this time. You'll be all right, but we've got to get you to Eustacia immediately. She has a salve-" "Of course. I know that." The look she gave him was dark. She let go of the settee and shook out her skirts. "My gown is ruined! I cannot walk out of here and through the party in this condition! Everyone will think... Well, they'll think the worst!" Max closed his mouth. When he spoke, his jaw was tight. "I will fetch your cloak-" "No, you'll never be able to find it. I'll go with you and we can cover up my gown. But my mother-" "Eustacia will send her a note explaining," Max replied, ushering her toward the door. "Come, we have time, but not that much time. The holy salt water will only slow the Guardian's poison for a short time." He fairly pushed her out the door and followed her directions down the hall, back toward the party. When she'd found her cloak and arranged it to cover her gown, he took a moment to adjust the fallen piece of hair, tucking it firmly into the collar of her cloak so that it would hide the bite. Moments later he was propelling her across the ballroom, dodging anyone who appeared eager to stop and talk, when the Marquess of Rock-something materialized. Victoria froze; Max could feel it all the way along the arm he'd been using to steer her through the crowd. "Miss Grantworth. And... er... ahem." He looked pointedly at Max. "I was looking for you." "Lord Rockley," Victoria said, with a gentle note in her voice that Max had yet to notice in any of his conversations with her, "I apologize for disappearing, and I regret even more that I am being called away to my great-aunt's bedside. She is ill again." Rockley-so that was his name-looked at Max again, then back at Victoria. "I see. Well, my lady, I regret that I was not able to quench your thirst this evening. Good night." "My lord, wait." Victoria pulled away from Max and reached for the marquess's arm. He stopped and looked down at her, and even from Max's view, he appeared cool and untouched, although surely one of the most beautiful women in the room was pulling him back. "May I present to you my aunt's personal guard, and my cousin"-Max heard her stress that last word-"Maximilian Pesaro. He came to fetch me to her side. Urgently." Rockley gave Max another of his measuring looks, then the barest trace of a bow. "Phillip de Lacy, Marquess of Rockley, at your service, er, sir." Max's patience was gone. The niceties of society and the flirtation between a debutante and a titled fop meant nothing in the grand scheme of things-namely that the beloved niece of Eustacia Gardella was currently carrying a vampire bite on her neck. "My pleasure, I'm sure. Victoria, I must insist we be on our way. Your aunt is in desperate straits." To his surprise, Victoria allowed him to practically tow her off in his wake; she had to take quick steps in order to keep up with him, but she did so with a minimum of fuss. "You appear to have no concept of how little time we have to address the situation in which you've so foolishly placed yourself," he snapped, shoving her into the coach that had been waiting for his return.

Victoria stumbled in and crawled over to a far corner, dragging her skirts and cloak. Despite her bravado in fac-ing him, she looked more than a little terrified about the result of her weakness. However, she recovered much too quickly. "I suppose you will have some sort of nasty remarks to make regarding my weakness," she said as the coach lurched into movement. "Regarding my failure as a Venator. Bitten by a vampire. A great laugh for you." Max stared at her from his seat across the coach. A small lantern hung in the corner, casting a soft glow over the interior, enough that she could see his mouth set into a thin line. He hesitated for only a moment; then he reached toward his throat and whipped the cravat from its perfect anchor, stripping it away and tossing it aside. Victoria watched, dumbfounded, as he snapped open the buttons on his collar and yanked it wide, exposing his neck. He turned to one side, displaying the four small marks of a vampire bite: two from the top fangs, two from the bottom. With a steady look, he turned in the other direction and showed her the other side of his neck, right at the juncture of his shoulder. The one that had not quite healed. "The reason I carry a vial of salted holy water." He settled back in his seat and turned to stare out the window. Victoria closed her mouth and said not another word. Victoria could not forget how easily she'd succumbed to the vampire's allure. When his lips had touched her neck, she'd softened, swayed, under his influence. His teeth, needle sharp, had played there... scraping gently over her skin, taunting, stroking, glancing over her pulse point as she lay in his arms, malleable and soft as a puddle of wax. And then, just as he sank his fangs into her skin... as the painful pleasure flooded over her, into her... she gathered every last bit of reality that swam in her mind, and closed her fingers over the stake. He moaned in ecstasy, and she struck. Poof. He was gone, and suddenly Maximilian was there. And now he'd brought her to Aunt Eustacia's house. "The Guardians had found her by the time I arrived," Max explained as he hustled Victoria into the salon. Her neck was still throbbing, thanks to another generous application of Max's salted holy water during the ride in his carriage, driven by Briyani. "Guardians?" Victoria asked as he directed her toward a chair. She sank into it and sat placidly while Eustacia and Kritanu bustled about the room. They were preparing something that smelled nasty and she expected would soon be plastered over her bite. Or, worse, that she would have to drink. "Guardian vampires," Kritanu told her in his gentle accent. "Fierce and loyal to Lilith, they are her elite guard. She turned each of them herself; they are her personal servants. Many of them have been undead for centuries or more. A common, less powerful vampire has eyes the color of blood. You can tell a Guardian by the color of his eyes-they are not so red as that, but lighter, ruby pink." Victoria nodded. "Is that the only thing that makes them different from other vampires?" "Guardians carry a poison in their fangs, unlike other vampires and Imperials. If it is not stopped, it will cause deatheven in a Venator. That is why Max was so determined to bring you back without delay." "Imperials? What are they?" asked Victoria. "You did not tell me there were different types of vampires." "Guardians and Imperials are not common, and since there is so much you must learn, I felt it necessary to focus your time on learning to fight them, and teach you other aspects of the undead as time goes on," Aunt Eustacia confessed. "I see that I have done a disservice in trying not to overwhelm you, Victoria. You might have been better prepared to recognize them tonight." "Imperials are the oldest vampires," Kritanu explained kindly. "Many of them are centuries, even millennia old. They carry swords, and they can fly or move about with such speed that they appear to fly. Their eyes are dark redpurple, and although they do not have the poison that the Guardians do, they are the most fearsome of the vampires. And the rarest." "And that is why I did not feel you needed to know that so soon." Eustacia looked over at Max. "I did not expect them to be so bold. Usually the Guardians stay close by Lilith; and Max has not fought an Imperial for two years." "It was obvious they were looking for Victoria; they sought her out at the ball." "Did you execute them?" Eustacia asked as she bent toward Victoria's neck, bringing a lamp so close it heated her skin. "You did well, Max," she added, brushing her fingers over the sore area. "Your quick thinking will make this much less painful." "Victoria staked the one who was biting her. I happened to stop the other." Max appeared to be perusing the page of an open book quite studiously. The page whisked as he turned it. Eustacia looked at Max, then at Victoria. "You staked the Guardian who bit you? Sorprendente! Kritanu, the ointment." "Yes... they were both attacking me, but he pushed the woman away. Then when he..." She glanced at Max, who looked as disinterested as if she were describing a new gown. Nevertheless, she dropped her voice. She didn't want the depths of her weakness to be so... evident. "When he bent to bite me... I let him. He... hypnotized me, I think. I

felt him pulling me-Yeow!" she squealed. And she didn't even think about how mortifying the sound was. It hurt. The ointment wasn't merely cold and putrid-smelling... it stung as if it were drilling into her skin. It burned ten times worse than Max's salt water, and Victoria couldn't hold back the tears of pain. "I know it's uncomfortable, my dear, but this will keep the scarring to a minimum and destroy most, if not all, of the Guardian poison. With any luck, it will look like no more than some faint blemishes. And along with the fact that you executed the vampire who did it... well, there should be no harmful effects." Victoria resisted the urge to look at Max, who had turned three more pages. He'd rebuttoned his collar and retied his cravat. But she remembered the scars on his neck. They were much more noticeable than a faint blemish. The man was fortunate that high starched collars were in style. Eustacia turned away to clean her hands and Kritanu gently wrapped a cloth around Victoria's neck, covering the paste that still felt as if it were ravaging her skin. "Breathe deeply and slowly, in and out," he told her quietly. "In and out. It will help to ease the discomfort." Victoria did as he suggested, and it did, indeed, lessen the pain. "You'll want to sleep here tonight," Eustacia told her. "I've sent word to the Dunsteads for your mother, so she won't be alarmed. I'll tell her I sent a coach for you myself, for if I know Melly, if she ever found out you'd ridden alone with Max, she would be quite beside herself." She took Victoria's hands. "You staked a Guardian vampire while he was biting you. If I had any reservation at all about your calling as a Venator, Victoria Gardella Grantworth, it would be gone now. As it is, I suspected from the beginning that you were special. Now I know you are. If anyone can stop Lilith, it will be you." Chapter Five

In Which Miss Grantworth Finds an Unexpected Ally "My lady! You've been bit by a vampire!" Verbena's eyes goggled in the mirror over Victoria's shoulder. With her round face and abominably frizzy red-blond hair, the maid looked like a babe just awakened from her sleep. Before Victoria could think how to respond, let alone grasp that her maid had recognized the bite, Verbena bent to look closer. "It looks like it'll heal just fine," she said, nodding sagely. "Put salted holy water on it, did ye?" "Verbena... how..." Victoria collected herself. "You aren't shocked at all." "No, my lady, and why would I be? With all the fuss about crosses, and stakes lying around, and that cross ye've got in your belly, what kind of maid would I be if I missed them clues? I've been waitin' for ye to ask me to find a way to hide garlic in your gloves!" "That wouldn't smell very pleasant at all," Victoria replied slowly. She wanted to shake her head to clear it. But she didn't think that would help. "And why you're not carrying your own salted holy water, I've been wondering meself. And how did ye manage to get bit anyway? I thought Ven'tors didn't get bit?" "How did you know I was a Venator?" Tired of looking at her maid through the mirror, Victoria turned on her stool and faced her. Verbena stabbed a finger toward her abdomen. "You carry the sign, of course, my lady." "How do you know about all of this? Vampires and Venators?" Verbena shrugged. "Who doesn't know about 'em? Vampires, I mean. Most peoples do, just they choose not to believe they exist. Unless they get bit; then they believe-but by then it's too late, in most cases. Everyone knows you got to stab them in the heart with a wooden stake, and everyone knows about the cross and holy water. I know most peoples think vampires are ugly, fright'nin' people who claw up your chest, but that ain't so. I've seen a bit before in me lifetime, I have. Me cousin twice removed, Barth, he knows lots about vampires, and he's been telling me stories since I was a little one. And he sees 'em a lot, too, over to the places in St. Giles. He carries a big crucifix, he does. Holds it out in front of him when he walks on the street. Looks pretty funny to me eyes, but it's better walkin' safe than lookin' smart." It seemed once Verbena was given leave to talk, she took it. Greedily. "Well, Verbena, I must say it is quite fortunate that you are so... er... well accustomed to the idea, as it will make things much easier for me. Because, of course, Lady Melly mustn't know anything about this at all." The maid bobbed. "Yes, my lady. Your mother would up and faint dead away, then ship you off to the country for good. And then where would we be? There ain't no vampires in the country that I know. An' I've already been thinking about other ways to dress your hair so we can put a stake in there, if need be, so's you can pull it out real easy if you need it. "An' there's prob'ly a way to put in two, 'cause I'm sure it could happen when ye might lose the one, and then what would ye do? Fortunate ye are to have such thick, heavy hair, so we have lots to work with. And until that bite is healed... well, my lady, that's going to be a challenge with these low styles that show off your neck and bosom, but I have some ideas, and we'll manage it. You just let me worry about that."

