"You don't have to pick me up," Victoria reminded him, wondering where her resolve had gone. "I can meet you there." "I will pick you up. You would never locate me in Vauxhall." "I will have to find a way to leave the house without Phillip knowing." "I should expect him to sleep quite well after such an evening," Max said mildly. "Or perhaps you could assist him... with this." He reached in his pocket and pulled out a small vial. "If you are concerned that he might awaken and find his wife missing." Victoria caught it when he tossed it lightly through the air. "What is it?" But she already knew. It was a drug. Max was suggesting that she drug her husband. "It is called salvi. Protection. Safety. It comes in quite handy." "As long as you aren't caught administering it and forced to drink it yourself." Victoria looked at the small vial, then glanced at Eustacia, who'd been unusually silent during their exchange. It was almost as if she'd realized her intervention would be useless. Could she actually drug Phillip? Was it necessary? If she didn't would he awaken to find her gone? If she wasn't beside him, where she'd become quite used to sleeping in the last two weeks, would he seek her out in her own bedchamber? The liquid was nearly clear; just the faintest blue tinged the thin, watery fluid. She would have to. To protect him, she not only had to lie to him... but drug him as well. For she could not chance his awakening and putting himself in danger again. Never again. "I am feeling quite exhausted," Victoria murmured into Phillip's ear as they sat in the box he'd let at the theater. "I would much rather be in bed... wouldn't you?" She dipped the tip of her tongue into the innermost part of his earquickly, like a tease-then moved away and returned her attention to the stage. Prim and proper she was then, with her hands folded neatly in her lap. Phillip shifted next to her in a manner that told her he, too, was thinking of things other than the play... which she was rather enjoying. "We can slip out during the next intermission-ah! What perfect timing," he amended, as the actors exited the stage. Victoria clung to his arm as they pushed through the bustle of people leaving their boxes to mingle and be seen. Phillip handed her into the carriage and climbed in after her. Instead of sitting on the seat across, he settled next to her and drew her near, kissing her with promise. "My dear, your neck is so cold! Are you quite comfortable?" he asked, pulling away. "I am not chilled, but oh, Phillip! I left my indispensable in our box; I'm certain of it! And it has Aunt Eustacia's brooch in it... Could you hurry back in and retrieve it for me?" "Of course, my darling. You wait here-I won't be above a minute!" She hoped that wasn't true, and waited until she saw him hurry back into the theater before she slipped the stake from a hidden pocket in her underskirt and climbed quietly out of the carriage-hoping the groom wouldn't hear her. The walkway was crowded, more with carriage grooms and hackney drivers than theatergoers. Victoria wasn't certain where the vampire was, but she followed her instinct and hurried around the corner. The street was darker here, and not so busy-but when she approached the third hackney in the row, she knew she'd come to the right place. A deep, muffled groan came from inside, and seeing that the driver was missing, Victoria flung open the door. The vampire was a woman and, from the looks of it, had just finished feeding-or, at least, had already started. She was dressed in a dark cloak, and her brown hair was arranged quite prettily in an intricate coiffure, complete with gemstones and ribbons. In fact, if it weren't for the bright red blood trickling from the corner of her mouth, and the odd-colored eyes, she would have looked like an innocent society miss. "How nice of you to join us," she greeted Victoria. Quick as a flash she lunged forward and grabbed at her. It took little effort for her to draw Victoria into the hackney-mainly because Victoria did not resist. But once Victoria was sprawled, half in, half out of the carriage, she took matters into her own hands and scrambled to a seat on the opposite side. That was when the vampire saw the stake. She drew back in fear, and her red eyes widened. "Venator!" "Pleased to meet you," Victoria told her as she slammed the stake into her chest. Poof! She was gone, and Victoria was alone with the man she presumed was the driver of the hackney, based on the less than elegant clothing he wore. She shifted his body to examine the bite and determine whether he was still alive and able to be saved. The bite was deep and still running with bright red blood. She felt the other side of his neck, trying to find a pulse... but her hand came away wet. The vampire had already been there too. If they had come out of the theater a few moments earlier, she might have sensed the vampire sooner, in time to

stop this. But there was nothing she could do for the man. He was already dead. When Victoria opened the hackney door, she froze, then quickly shut it. Phillip was standing on the street, calling for her. Damn and blast! She peered out the window, waiting for him to pass by so she could sneak out and hurry back to their carriage. As soon as he went beyond the hackney, she did slip out and rush back... but just as she rounded the corner, she realized she was leaving Phillip alone-where another vampire could easily appear. The back of her neck remained warm, but she still paused at the corner, peering around to watch for him. To her relief he came back into view, striding along as if to hurry back and search in a different direction. She made her way to the carriage, where Tom, the groom, rushed up to her in relief. "My lady! Where did you go?" She did not answer, for at that moment Phillip came around the corner and caught sight of her. "Victoria! Where did you go? And what is that on your gown? Is that blood?" He stared at her, appalled. "Let us get in the carriage and I will tell you." It was nearly eleven, and if she was going to be ready for Max, they needed to get started. Phillip helped her into the carriage, and Victoria took her seat, thinking quickly. "Did you find my indispensable?" "No, there was nothing in the box. Victoria-" "Oh, my dear, here it is! It was under the cushion all along!" she said, retrieving her little pouch. "I am so sorry for sending you on such a goose chase." "Yes, just as you were last week when you thought you left your shawl at the inn where we dined." "I can't imagine how I've become so fiddle-minded!" Victoria said, and because she recognized that he was only so patient and able to be distracted for so long, she said, "I did not mean to give you a fright, Phillip, but I saw an acquaintance of my mother's and hurried out to greet her. I walked with her and her husband to their carriage-just a few down from ours-and she bade me come in and greet her daughter, and as we climbed in, the door of the carriage slammed into her husband's nose, and it began to bleed quite dreadfully. He was so embarrassed that he bled on my skirt. I couldn't just rush off... so I stayed until I was certain he did not feel at fault. I am so sorry I did not tell Tom that I was leaving!" "Well, I hope that you don't just hie off again without telling someone. First, it is not safe-there are many miscreants lurking about, waiting for an opportunity to rob an unsuspecting straggler... and second, you are a marchioness now and not only have a position to uphold, but you are very valuable and worth quite a bit of money to someone nefarious-and much more to me. I want you to be safe." "Of course, Phillip. I won't do such a thing again." And she meant it. Next time she'd plan better. They snuggled together, during the rest of the way home, as newlyweds were wont to do. Victoria plotting how she would slip the salvi to Phillip, and Phillip thinking about how he was going to slip something into Victoria. It was a quarter past midnight when Victoria rapped lightly on Max's coach. The door swung open and she climbed in without help. To her surprise Max, who lounged in the corner of one seat, didn't say anything about her tardiness. Instead, he knocked on the ceiling for Briyani to go, and the carriage started off. Victoria sat silently across from him, trying not to think about how she'd betrayed her husband. She'd added the salvi, which Max had assured her was tasteless and odorless, to Phillip's glass of scotch, then brought it to him after they made love. Curling up in the large feather bed next to him, Victoria pretended to fall asleep whilst waiting for the drug to take effect. "Did you use the salvi?" Max's question snapped her back to the present... but not away from the guilt. "Yes. I had no other choice to ensure his safety, did I?" He looked at her. "You did have a choice, Victoria... and you know that I believe you made the wrong one." Anger boiled inside her, topping off the simmering of guilt. "And you know that your opinion means little to me." "A fact which wounds me deeply." "Do you know what I think?" Max inclined his head, and in the low light she could see one eyebrow lift. "I am certain you are about to tell me." She continued. "I think you are jealous. Purely, simply jealous, and that is why you have nothing nice to say." "Jealous?" "Yes, jealous of what I have with Phillip. What you don't have and never will because you are so cold and cruel." The words tumbled out, almost as if she didn't know what she was saying-but she did know, and she knew she wanted to wound him, just as he'd wounded her by rubbing salt in her already tender heart. Her guilty, tender heart. It frightened her, the way she felt-the strength of the emotions roiling inside her-because... she feared, deep inside, that perhaps Max was right after all. Perhaps she'd made a mistake.

Max sat like stone for the remainder of the carriage ride to Vauxhall Gardens. When they arrived he gave instructions to his driver, paid the four shillings for himself and Victoria to enter the gardens, and, with the barest of glances at her, started along the winding pathway. Lamps of orange, blue, yellow, and red hung throughout the gardens, casting brightly colored circles on the stone path and the booths that offered ham slices, biscuits, and punch. Although she'd never been in the gardens before, she knew there were hidden alcoves and mysterious grottoes throughout the park-the perfect places for an assignation, or for a vampire attack. People strolled about-couples, clusters of young people with their chaperones, and groups of young men looking for adventure. The fireworks display had finished thirty minutes earlier, and the patrons were beginning to head back to their carriages. It wasn't far into the gardens before Victoria's neck iced over. Definitely at least ten vampires in the vicinity, she guessed. She had dressed in trousers and a man's shirt tonight, needing the freedom of movement. Max led the way, and just about the time Victoria thought her neck must surely be white with frost, they came upon a group of four undead toying with a septet of young men. Perhaps both Victoria and Max had an equal amount of temper to vent, for the battle was brief and fairly onesided... all four vampires were staked barely before their intended victims could run for safety. Since only a few fangs had been bared, and the seven young men were quite in their cups, Max did not feel they needed to be hypnotized out of their memories. Instead he urged Victoria to follow him down a darker path. As they rounded the corner of a tall, thick bush, three vampires leaped out at them. One of them was carrying a knife, and before she could react Victoria felt a hot, sharp pain down her left arm. With a cry of fury she raised her right arm and plunged the stake into his chest. She heard two soft pops as Max dispatched the others, and she turned to continue along the path without another word. Her arm burned, and when she reached over to touch it, the jacket sleeve was damp. The only good thing about the wound was that the scent of blood would attract any other vampires, making it much easier for her and Max to finish their job and get back to the carriage. And for Victoria to get back into bed with her husband, who slept peacefully and dreamlessly, thanks to his unscrupulous wife. Anger with herself helped propel her striking arm during the other two short-lived incidents; she and Max were efficient and silent as they finished off the cluster of vampires that had dared to invade Vauxhall Gardens on a night that they patrolled. On the way back to Max's carriage, Victoria held her wounded arm, which throbbed and stung, radiating pain up into her shoulder. She walked behind Max, who did not bother to shorten his long strides in deference to her shorter ones. It wasn't until they got in the carriage, each in their own. corners, that he saw her holding her arm. He rapped on the ceiling, and as the carriage jolted into motion he said, "What's wrong with your arm?" Before she could reply, he sniffed the air, then reached across and pulled her hand away. "You're bloody bleeding through your coat!" "It worked quite well to attract the vampires. We finished up rather more quickly than I'd thought we would." "Take off your coat. You're bleeding all over yourself, and probably on my seat as well." Victoria glared at him, but she did shrug out of her jacket. It hurt like blazes when she tugged the tight sleeve over her arm, and when she bent her elbow to pull the other side off. The white sleeve of her shirt was dark with blood from shoulder to past her elbow. Max took one look in the low light and swore. "Bloody hell, Victoria, why didn't you say something? How did that happen?" "One of those three who jumped from the trees had a knife, and he caught me by surprise." Max was cursing under his breath as he rummaged in a small drawer under his seat. He sat back up holding a mass of white cloth, a small jar, and a knife. With brief, angry movements, he sliced the clean blade down her shirtsleeve, cutting the fabric from her shoulder to her wrist and pulling it away to bare her arm. "Hold still." He sopped at the blood with some of the cloth and, holding it tightly, told her, "Keep this here for a minute. It's starting to slow." She held the cloth there while he opened the small jar. The smell of rosemary and something else that she couldn't identify filled the carriage, and when Max pulled the cloth away, she allowed her free hand to fall into her lap. "Hold this," he said, slamming the jar into her open palm. He scooped roughly into the jar and slapped some of the cool, thick salve all along the cut, then wrapped white strips of cloth none too gently around her arm. Victoria felt her fingers begin to tingle as the blood was cut off, but she said nothing. At last, when they were nearly back to St. Heath's Row, Max stuffed the unused cloth and the jar back into the drawer and settled into his seat. "You'd better start thinking of a good story, Victoria, because you're going to have a bloody time of it trying to explain that to your husband."

Chapter Twenty-two

Incident at Bridge and Stokes Phillip found his wife already sitting down to breakfast when he came downstairs the morning after their visit to the theater. He felt muzzy-headed and sluggish, though he had slept later than usual after a satisfactory bout of lovemaking. "Good morning, my dear," he said, breathing in the scent of crisp bacon and coddled eggs. They were alone in the dining room, so he bent to press a kiss to her bare neck and said quietly, "I was greatly disappointed to find my bed bereft of you. Why so early to rise?" "I woke early and did not wish to disturb you," she replied. But the dark circles under her eyes told a different story. "I must have slept like a stone not to hear you get up," he commented, filling his plate, wondering why her expression seemed so guarded. "I cannot recall even moving after resting my head on the pillow; indeed, I believe I woke in the exact same position in which I lay down. That is quite unusual for me. It must be your fault." He said it lightly, with a teasing smile, but Victoria did not seem to find it amusing. She took a sip of tea and appeared to have difficulty swallowing a small bite of toast. Phillip shook his head; he still felt cloudy-minded. Perhaps his little joke hadn't been as funny as he'd thought. "Are you cold?" he asked, trying another tack. "I'm rather warm, but you are wearing a pelisse." "Yes, I am a bit chilled," Victoria replied. But her cheeks were pink, and if he was not mistaken, there was the slightest sheen on her forehead. "Are you not feeling well?" he asked. "No, in fact, I am not feeling quite the thing." A thought struck him, a wonderful thought. But it was too early... it had been only two weeks. But he spoke anyway. "Perhaps... is it possible you might be carrying my heir? I know it has been only a few weeks..." Victoria looked up from her breakfast at him, her face pale and her dark green-flecked eyes wide, shocked. "N-no... I think it is too soon, Phillip." He smiled. "Then we shall have to work harder at it." "I am not feeling well," Victoria said, standing abruptly. "I believe I shall lie down for a bit. Are you off to your club today?" "I have some business to attend to... but if you are not feeling well, Victoria, I will stay nearby." "No. No, Phillip, I will be fine. I just need some rest. I did not sleep as well as you did last night." He watched her hurry from the room, and noticed something very odd: When she brushed through the doorway, she bumped her left arm on the edge. The way she grabbed at it and gasped told him it was more than a minor pain due to clumsiness. Something else was wrong. Dear heavens! A baby! Phillip wanted a baby! Victoria collapsed on the bed in her private chamber, forgetting and falling on her left side and then rolling over when pain burned down her arm. She couldn't have a baby. She couldn't keep drugging her husband every night she had to sneak out and patrol... She couldn't keep "forgetting" items and sending him back for them. She couldn't continue to make up ridiculous stories about bleeding noses to explain blood on her skirt. She couldn't keep taking out her vis bulla every time they made love. How was she going to do this? She could tell him the truth... but if she did that, he would simply follow her. Put himself in danger again. Or worse... he would think she was mad. The door opened and Victoria bolted upright, but it wasn't Phillip. "Now, my lady, what ever is the matter?" It was Verbena. Her orange hair tufting with every movement, she sailed over to the bed and sat next to her mistress. "Is it your arm paining you again?" "No, since you cleaned it up last night it has hardly hurt me at all, except when I bumped against the door. It's the marquess." Verbena nodded. "Aye, yes, I see that. I see that you must take your vis bulla out at night. He don't understand, and ye can't tell him. What did ye do to him to make him sleep so well? Franks said as how he could barely stir him this mornin'." Victoria shook her head. It was her knowledge to bear and no one else's. "It is better if I do not speak of it. But the marquess wants an heir." "Of course he does. But you cannot be fighting vampires if you are carrying a babe! You will have to make certain this does not happen." "I cannot deny him!" "Why would you want to do that? There are other ways to prevent a baby from coming, my lady. Your aunt will know how Venators prevent babies." Verbena nodded her head sagely. "And I know some tricks myself, my lady. If your

aunt cannot help you, I will." Victoria nodded, feeling a bit relieved, but at the same time as though she were sinking ever more deeply into a quagmire of lies and deceit. Perhaps Aunt Eustacia would have some words of wisdom. To Victoria's relief, the ever-present Max was not at Aunt Eustacia's home when she called later that morning. Kritanu served them a light nuncheon, then disappeared discreetly when it became obvious that Victoria was not there to practice her kalaripayattu. "How is your arm?" Aunt Eustacia asked. Apparently Max had been there. "It is fine." "It will heal quickly; Max's salve is miraculous, and you carry the protection of the vis bulla." Victoria ate a bite of cheese, wondering how to tell her aunt she didn't think she could go on. That she needed to change something about being a Venator. "Aunt Eustacia, I need your advice. I don't know what to do." "It is much more difficult than you believed it would be, isn't it, cam?" "Phillip wants an heir, and I cannot give him salvi every night!" Her aunt nodded, her black hair gleaming like the night. "It is a very difficult situation you are in, Victoria. As for the baby... well, that is easily preventable. I am surprised you did not ask about that sooner." She did not reply. Her aunt was right that she should have been concerned with this before now. "I will give you a tonic. If you drink it regularly, it will keep you from having a baby. Victoria..." The way Eustacia said her name brought Victoria's face up to look at her. "Lilith has not forgotten that you and Max retrieved the Book of Antwartha. I know it is safely hidden at St. Heath's Row, but Lilith will not rest until she gets the book in her possession. It may seem that in the last two months undead activity has waned. It may appear that you are not needed, that Max and I can handle any threats that come along. But. do not be fooled. You are a Venator and have been forever marked as one. Never forget you have dealt Lilith a great defeat-for she will not forget. She will not rest until she has exacted her revenge." Evening fashions were not conducive to hiding wounds on one's arm, so Victoria found herself in quite a quandary that night. Verbena helped her to pull on the longest pair of gloves she owned, melon-colored ones that extended past the elbow, but there was a great expanse of bare skin exposed, due to the flimsy puffed sleeves that barely covered the edges of her shoulders. "You will have to keep your wrap about your arms at all times," Verbena clucked. The dressing had been removed, and true to Aunt Eustacia's word, the cut had already begun to heal and was hardly sore at all. But the long red gash was still quite noticeable, so Victoria wrapped her shawl around her upper arm twice, letting the rest of it swag gently across the base of her spine and over her right arm. "Under no circumstances can you take that wrap from your arms." Phillip had sent word that he would be at his club for the evening, and would not be attending the dinner dance at which Victoria was expected to make an appearance. She considered crying off, but felt that it would be better to attend for a short while in order to appease her mother, and return home before midnight. Thus she was greatly surprised when, as she was leaving the dance floor after a country dance, she saw Max striding across the room toward her. Victoria excused herself from her dance partner, the younger son of an earl, and hurried to meet him. "I know that you aren't here to partake of Society at its best," she said by way of greeting. "Lilith's minions are on the move. There's to be another group attack tonight," he told her, casting his glance about the room. "I do not wish to ruin your evening, but it would likely save some lives if you were to accompany me. Can you get away?" "Yes, of course." She was already walking toward the main entrance of the house. "I don't see the marquess. Don't you need to tell him you are leaving?" "He is not here this evening." Max easily kept in stride with her as she made her way up the sweeping flight of stairs. "Where is he?" "At his club." "Which one is that?" "Bridge and Stokes, I believe, although why it matters to you I-What is it?" He'd grabbed her arm, nearly jerking her off her feet near the top of the steps. The butler eyed them curiously, but she ignored him, for when Max spun her about to look at him the expression on his face sent a sick feeling worming into her stomach. "The raid tonight is to be at a particular gentlemen's club." Their eyes met and he needed say nothing more; she was already pushing past the gawking butler and a cluster of people arriving at the dance.

He caught up with her outside, where she was trying to spot the Rockley carriage in the long line of vehicles around the circular drive. She had no time to wait for the valet to call for it. "Are you certain you want to come? What if Rockley recognizes you?" "I'm going." "Then get in here." He flung open the door of a black carriage, one she was more than familiar with, and lent her a hand to climb in. Victoria scrambled to her seat, and had barely settled when the coach started off. Her long skirts were tangled among their four legs, and her wrap had slid to bare her cut arm. "Here." Max tossed her a large bundle of cloth, and when she sorted through it she found a shirt, trousers, a coat, and a long strip of cloth. "Verbena gave them to me when I came to find you." Victoria looked down at the clothing and back at him. "You can't fight in a ball gown, Victoria, and you needn't pretend modesty to me. I have no interest in watching you undress in a carriage, unlike your friend Sebastian, who would likely offer to assist you." With that he tilted his head back against the top of his seat and closed his eyes. When she didn't move, he snapped, "Be quick about it." Her gown was not easily removed, but Victoria struggled through and managed to unhook the flat copper hooks that held the bodice together in the back. When she pulled the gown up and over her head, the fabric wafted in a cloud of gauze over the interior of the carriage, brushing Max's stoic face-but he did not shift or give any indication that he felt it. With her gown off, Victoria was dressed only in a light chemise and corset. It would be impossible to remove the stays without assistance, so she pulled the man's shirt over the fitted undergarment. She could not pull it down over her generous bosom, cupped up and pushed together as it was. Victoria must have made a sound of frustration, for Max said, "Do you need assistance? I'm so sorry I did not think to bring your maid." Her attention snapped from her bosom to him, but he was still relaxing, eyes closed as if nothing more urgent than a picnic were on the agenda. "In a moment." She would have to take the corset off and bind her breasts in order to get the shirt on. For a moment she considered remaining in her gown... but that was ridiculous. Not only would she not be able to fight, but she would stand out unacceptably in the club. If she even got in. She turned around on her seat, presenting as much of her back to Max as possible. "Can you... I can't unlace my... my corset." There was a pause; then she heard him stir behind her. The back hem of the shirt moved, and she resisted the urge to pull it down in front. If she did, he would not be able to reach up under it and unlace the corset. His hands were quick and impersonal, and he managed to move them up and under the shirt and untie the laces, loosening them from top to bottom. She kept expecting to feel his fingers-would they be warm or cool?-brush over her skin, but they did not. Victoria felt the garment give way as each row of laces loosened, and she held it to the front of her chest as it began to sag from behind. When he was finished, Max did not linger. She felt him move away, heard him settle back into his seat without a word. Victoria wrapped herself with the strip of cloth Verbena had thoughtfully provided, awkward and rushed, allowing the shirt to slip almost completely from her shoulders as she did so. Her wounded arm ached faintly with the odd angle, but she was not about to ask Max for any more help. "Are you nearly finished? I'm getting a crick in my neck." "Almost." The collar buttons fumbled under her fingers because of her haste, but at last the shirt was done, the trousers were pulled on, and her coat was shrugged into. "There are shoes on the floor," Max said, still without moving. At last she was ready. "I'm finished. Thank you." Max opened his eyes. "You have to do something about your hair." Victoria yanked the pins from the intricate curls and whorls Verbena had spent an hour on, knowing that her only option was to take it down and smooth it back. "Do you have anything I can tie it with?" she asked, using her fingers to scrape it into a long, low tail at the nape of her neck. Max, who seemed prepared for any eventuality, produced a thin leather cord from under the same seat the salve had been stored in, and, ordering her to turn, helped her bind and braid it. Their fingers clashed, and his cool ones brushed her neck as he helped her stuff the long tail down the back of her shirt. By the time they were finished, the carriage was rolling to a stop. "Here we are," Max said, slamming a hat on top of her head. "If Rockley sees you, the game is up. Otherwise... you can pass for a man." So much for Sebastian's opinion that she was unable to hide her gender while dressed in men's clothing. Max tossed three stakes her way, and as she shoved them into her coat she saw him pocket a gun and slip a small dagger into his boot. Then she followed him out of the coach. Victoria had barely had the chance to wonder how Max intended to gain admittance to the private gentlemen's club

with the small, discreet bridge & stokes sign when he approached the doorman. "Guests of the Marquess of Rockley," he told him coolly. Victoria edged up the steps to stand next to him. Her neck was still warm. The doorman allowed them to step into the foyer of the narrow building, effectively turning them over to the butler. "May I help you?" "We are here as guests of the Marquess of Rockley," Max said again. "Maximilian Pesaro and his companion." Victoria wanted to kick Max. What in the blazes was he doing? If Phillip saw her... But when the butler turned, ostensibly to call for Phillip, Max shoved her none too gently toward the curl of stairs that swept up from the entrance and into a balcony above. "I'll get Rockley out of here; you go up there and see what you can find," he said in an undertone. She dashed up the steps and was just disappearing from sight when she heard the butler return. The voices below were a low rumble, but then she discerned Max's tones pitched loud enough for her to hear him say, "He is abovestairs? I shall go up and find him myself then, thank you." Victoria had reached the top of the staircase and now she froze. She heard Max making his way up in her wake, continuing to assure the butler that he would locate the marquess on his own. And just as Max reached the top of the stairs, facing her, two things happened: One of the doors along the hallway overlooking the balcony opened and Phillip walked out... and Victoria felt her neck ice over. She looked at Max and they both moved at the same time-Victoria turned and hurried down the hall in the opposite direction as Max whirled to face Rockley, who stopped when he recognized him. He was with another man, who looked annoyed. "Pesaro? I did not know you were a member here." There was no warmth in his voice or his face; clearly he did not believe Max belonged there. "I am not. I came at Victoria's behest. She asked me to call for you to return home." Victoria, who had moved several steps down the hall and ducked into an open doorway, held back a gasp at his audacity. It was gratifying, in a matter of speaking, to hear her husband's panic when he replied, "Is she ill? Is she hurt?" "I believe she will be fine, but she did wish to see you most urgently." It would have worked. It should have worked to get Phillip out of the club before the vampires struck, but they were just a little too late. Victoria felt the chill at the back of her neck sharpen so suddenly that she stiffened in surprise. Still standing in a shadowed doorway, she pulled one of the stakes from her pocket just as her husband's companion opened his mouth. She saw the flash of white fangs and the sudden glint of red in his eyes. Fortunately the sound she made drew Phillip's attention toward her and gave Max the opportunity to slam his own stake into the vampire behind him. Phillip, who was peering at Victoria, took several steps toward her and did not appear to hear the poof. "Do I know you?" he asked uncertainly. Victoria, taking care to keep her head angled away and tucked under the hat she wore, felt the presence of another vampire. "Rockley, get out of here," Max said angrily. "Get home to Victoria. She is waiting for you!" She was thankful he drew Phillip's attention from her, and then a loud shout and altercation from below completed the distraction. "What the bloody hell?" Phillip turned and began to bound down the stairs, Max in his wake, barely touching the steps. Victoria watched the two men go and knew that Max would see that Phillip was safe. That left her to handle the second floor. She hurried down the hall, throwing doors open in search of the three vampires she sensed were up there. She found one just beginning to seduce his intended victim with a game of cards, and when she blasted into the room, he barely had the chance to throw down his hand before she staked him. The sounds of fighting and shouts from below urged her on more quickly. Max was easily outnumbered, if the sensation on the back of her neck was accurate-and it always was. She had to find two more up here, and then she could go down to help. As it turned out, they found her first, coming down the hallway shoulder-to-shoulder. They appeared to recognize her. "There she is!" one of them growled, and suddenly he was next to her, grabbing at her arms. Victoria ducked and threw herself at his legs, sending him tumbling onto the floor just as the other one approached. Using all the strength in her legs, Victoria shoved and slammed the second vampire onto the first one, then vaulted to her feet. One stake in each hand, she whirled and slammed them, one, two, into their chests. She started toward the stairs and paused, looking down at the fracas below. Max stood in the center of the room using a fireplace poker to stave off what appeared to be two Guardians and an Imperial. Three other vampires stood waiting their turn, unable to get close enough to join the fray. Dark drops of blood flew with each of Max's
