
as simple as a branch catching at her or an argument with Truscott, wherever he had gone off to-and he and Victoria could stand on the patio alone. And start again where they had left off. He looked down, ready to gather her back into his arms. "Victoria, what is that in your hand?" He saw even in the half-light that her cheeks flushed light pink. She looked down at the slender piece of wood she held as if wondering how it got there. "I... it was falling from my hair as I hurried to help Miss Colton. I'll just put it in my indispensable, for only my maid knows how to repair my hair." Phillip thought that the stick looked rather large and unwieldy to be part of such an intricate coiffure, but what did he know about how women dressed their hair? He appreciated the results, but had little interest in the mechanics. He was just pulling her close to him, tipping her chin up with a gentle nudge of his thumb, when he realized she was looking over his shoulder into the ballroom. "Phillip... I really must go check on Miss Colton and make certain she is unhurt." Disappointment rolled over him. "I am certain she is being cared for. Although I do not know what became of Lord Truscott." She pulled easily from what he thought was a firm grip. "Phillip, I promise... I will return in just a moment. I feel responsible for her. Won't you come inside with me?" She smiled so prettily, and hugged his arm so close to the length of her body, brushing against the side of her bosom, that he couldn't refuse. Back inside the Madagascar home, Victoria quickly excused herself from Phillip. Frantic with the delay he'd caused by catching her in the gardens, she hurried through the throngs of people, knowing that she would have to offer more explanation to him later. She was relieved that there didn't seem to be a massive sense of panic or outrage from the party goers; more clusters of people were talking than dancing, but they did not seem to be upset. It appeared that possibly Miss Colton had made her way to the ladies' changing room without causing too much of a commotion about the vampire attack that had happened only yards away from the merrymaking. Victoria prayed that was the case, and hoped that Miss Colton was in no frame of mind to speak of what had happened... or ask about the whereabouts of Lord Truscott. She wasn't sure how she was going to explain that he'd poofed into a cloud of ashes. It was perhaps too much to hope that Emily Colton hadn't realized what was happening before Victoria arrived upon the scene; but she did indeed hope. It had happened quickly; Lord Truscott was just bending his face to her neck when Victoria burst upon them. Emily escaped, disappearing into the brush with a shriek, before Victoria had come face-to-face with Truscott and plunged the stake into his chest. Now she hurried down the hall and reached the ladies' retiring room. Pausing to collect her breath and pat down her hair, Victoria eased the door open and found a small cluster of women around a white-faced Emily Colton. "Emily," Victoria said, slipping inside and closing the door behind her. "How are you?" "Oh!" shrieked Emily, leaping to her feet and throwing herself at Victoria. "You are unhurt! I was so frightened for you!" Victoria gently extricated her from the other woman's arms. "I am not hurt at all. And how do you feel?" Emily ignored the question and began babbling to the others, pointing at Victoria with a shaking finger. "She came right in at the moment he attacked me! I ran away; I shouldn't have left her, but I was too frightened to think!" The five other ladies looked from Victoria to Emily and back again, as if measuring the difference in their demeanors. Victoria was careful to keep her expression gentle even though she needed to know what Emily had seen, and whether she'd realized what happened. Emily was still speaking rapidly, as though she had to let the words loose or she would lose them. "What happened? Did Lord Truscott-?" "I do not know what happened to him," Victoria replied, clasping her fingers around Emily's hand. "As soon as you ran, he turned and disappeared in another direction. He did not hurt me." That, at least, was true. It appeared that Emily accepted this explanation; and the others had no reason to question it. The word vampire had not been uttered; she need give no explanation for Truscott's disappearance. Now Victoria could excuse herself and find Phillip. It would be easy to return to her betrothed; but it would not be so easy to accept that she had killed Lord Truscott of the soft brown eyes and clumsy feet. "It has happened!" Lady Melisande burst into Winnie's drawing room without waiting for the butler. "Oh, glory be, it has happened! Victoria is to be a marchioness!" "Rockley has come up to snuff?" Winnie leaped to her feet with surprising agility for one so well cushioned. "Oh, Melly, I am enraptured for you! And for Victoria, too, of course!" "Victoria is to marry Rockley?" Petronilla exclaimed at the precise moment the duchess squealed. "Get out of my way, Winnie, so I can hug her too!"

The ladies danced around the room, the china and knickknacks clinking in their wake. "He came just shortly ago to get my blessing-as if he needed to ask!" Melly, out of breath, huffed as she sank into a chair. Winnie, who had snatched up two blueberry scones, did not pause in her enthusiastic prancing until she'd poured tea for the newest arrival. Then she plunked down next to her. "We shall have to begin planning the wedding immediately. It will be the event of the Season!" Petronilla said. "But do tell, did Victoria have any details about the incident at the Madagascar ball last night? It is the talk of the town!" Winnie slammed a hand to her chest, closing her fingers around the crucifix that rested on the shelf of her bosom. If possible, it was an even bigger cross than the one she'd been wearing last week. "Nilly was just telling me about it. I'm certain it was a vampire attack!" Melly looked at them. "Whatever are you talking about?" "Miss Emily Colton was attacked last night, in the gardens at the Madagascars' house. She was not hurt, but frightened, and her escort, Lord Truscott, has disappeared," Winnie explained. "Why do you think it was a vampire attack?" Melly said, rolling her eyes. "Lord Truscott likely got too familiar with Miss Colton and she sent him on his way... and did not want to confess that she'd been walking in the garden alone with him. Miss Colton has been known to be a bit loose, you know." "But no one knows where he is," said Winnie. "And it was in the dark. And her neck was scratched." "Perhaps Lord Truscott is a vampire," said Petronilla. Her eyes gleamed like sapphires. "Perhaps he was overcome by lust and could not resist any longer, and tried to seduce Miss Colton in the gardens..." "What nonsense! Nilly, Winnie, I declare, if you would rather go on about vampires instead of helping me to plan Victoria's wedding, then I will leave you two to it!" "No, Melly, we'll stop. I don't want to talk about them anyway," Winnie said, shooting a look at Petronilla. "There's nothing about them that fascinates me on any level. They are evil bloodsucking creatures, dirty and smelly with claws and long hair-" "They are not! Mrs. Lawson's daughter's neighbor's sister was the one who had one in her bedchamber, and she said he smelled like licorice and that he was cleanshaven and-" "I thought you did not want to talk about them!" Melly interrupted, standing. "I am going to leave if either one of you mentions the word vampire again." Winnie clamped her mouth shut. Petronilla raised her teacup to her lips and sipped, gazing innocently out the window. "Now," Melisande said, settling back into her chair, "which modiste should we have make the dress?" "Victoria always looks well with Madame LeClaire's designs," replied Petronilla. "I was not talking about Victoria's gown! I meant my dress!" said Melly indignantly. "Well, in that case, I suggest we take ourselves out of here and down to Bond Street for a shopping excursion!" said Winnie. And they very happily did just that, with Winnie clutching her crucifix the whole way. The sun was lowering when Victoria climbed out of Barth's hackney only a short distance from the home of Rudolph Caulfleld, the man who owned the Book of Antwartha. Sebastian had clearly indicated that the vampires acting on Lilith's behalf were to arrive at night, but Victoria was taking no chances that they might come and go before she got there. Verbena had helped her to dress, not as a man this night, nor as a debutante, but as a Venator, in a costume the maid had specially prepared. It consisted of a split skirt that appeared no different from any other day dress, but which would allow her more freedom of movement. The sleeves were firmly anchored to the shoulders of the dress's bodice, unlike the filmy, frothy ones that were often barely basted onto normal evening apparel. The cloth was dark blue, with very little ornamentation, and of a soft cotton, so there would be no rustling noises of taffeta or charmeuse. Its length was a bit shorter than what Victoria was used to wearing, several inches from the ground. The most unique aspects of the costume were two small slipknots into which Victoria could slide stakes to hang at her waist, and two deep pockets hidden in the folds of the skirt, where she might put salted holy water, a crucifix, and other accoutrements. When Victoria slipped out of the hackney, she left her cloak behind; it was a balmy summer evening, and the excitement of the adventure would keep her warm. Barth was given his instructions, and she turned from the coach. Earlier in the day she and Verbena had traveled to Caulfield's home, known as Redfield Manor, in order to ascertain its location, its geography, and an appropriate place where Victoria might wait and watch without being noticed. Verbena, quite into the spirit of things after her evening drinking ale with vampires at the Silver Chalice, approached the servants' door in an attempt to learn what she could about the household schedule and layout. Victoria wasn't sure how she managed to extract the information, but she learned that the servants were leaving with Rudolph Caulfield that afternoon, and that the gentleman coming to stay at the home would be bringing his own retinue.

And, as Victoria slipped behind a tall iron gate, she was grateful that Verbena had also learned that the garden was very rarely used... and thus would be the perfect place to wait. Finding a stone bench thrust under a small tree that had refused to sprout buds that spring, Victoria sat and slid to the edge so she could watch the house. From this vantage point she could see anyone approaching the front door. She assumed that Mr. Caulfield and his servants had left and been replaced by his houseguest during the afternoon. As she sat, trying to ignore a persistent bee that was determined to find nectar in the vicinity of the dead tree, Victoria felt a stab of guilt. She had argued long and hard with herself and with Verbena about whether to tell Aunt Eustacia and Max about her plans for the evening... but in the end she had decided not to. She could take care of herself-Kritanu had trained her well. She knew what she was doing. So she'd decided to do this alone, for several perfectly logical reasons. First, if Sebastian's information was wrong, she would feel foolish having dragged Max to the site of Redfield Manor; for it was certain he would have been the one to accompany her, not Aunt Eustacia. Not to mention the fact that she would have to be in his company the entire evening. Second, Victoria was certain she would be able to handle two or three vampires alone-particularly since the element of surprise would be in her favor. She could determine when and how to strike. Third, she had braved the dangers of the Silver Chalice on her own to get the information, and Sebastian had warned her not to tell anyone. If she had told Aunt Eustacia and Max, they would have demanded that she divulge her source. Once she had the Book of Antwartha in her possession, no one would care how she got the information. And fourth... Max and Aunt Eustacia all seemed to be willing to keep their own secrets from her. So why should she not act on her own if they were not going to include her in all of their plans? After all, she was a vis bullaed Venator, and she had staked a Guardian vampire whilst he was biting her. Never mind Verbena's clicking tongue or wagging chin. Victoria was comfortable with her decision. So she waited and turned her thoughts toward more pleasant items, such as the passionate kisses she and Phillip had exchanged on the terrace, and in the carriage, and on the front doorstep of Grantworth House. She was to be married! She could scarcely believe it had happened so quickly, so easily and wonderfully. She'd always thought fondly of the young man she'd met that summer; perhaps even then she'd given him her heart. Whatever had happened then, whether she had felt love for him or not, did not matter, for she loved him now. The sun seemed to move infinitesimally slowly toward the ring of trees that edged the street. Victoria watched, noticing each person as he or she walked by, knowing that she would recognize the vampires when they approached. Suddenly her attention was caught by a movement at the corner of her eye... from the back of the garden. Victoria held her breath and shrank more closely into the shrubbery surrounding her bench, slipping quickly to a crouch on the ground. The backyard was shaded in this late afternoon, and would soon be dark, so the shadow that eased from a crack in the stone wall was at first indiscernible. It moved with speed and grace, and as it drew closer to the back of the house and became recognizable, Victoria's mouth dropped open from behind a boxwood. Max. There was no mistaking his height and spare, measured movements as he made his way toward a set of wooden cellar doors. A bolt of fury shafted through her, and Victoria slammed her teeth together so hard a crack of pain shot through her jaw. She was surprised he didn't hear the loud snap; and she was glad he didn't. What was he doing here? Not looking for her; he would easily have found her if he'd cared to look. Somehow he must have learned about the book, that it was here and that the owner was gone. In the moment that the blankness of shock and the red haze of anger burst over her, Victoria had missed his next move. When she refocused her attention toward the house, toward where Max had been approaching the wooden doors, he was gone. Had he gone in? Or had he found another hiding place, as she had, and would also lie in wait for the vampires? He was a blasted fool if he thought she was going to wait here by herself. Victoria eased from her hiding place, gratified that, although the sun hadn't set completely, the shadows were long enough in this garden that they afforded her a protective cover as she hurried along in Max's path. As she approached the building, one of her questions, at least, was answered when she saw a tall, unmistakable figure pass in front of a window at the back of the house. Max was inside, in the servants' quarters, if one were to judge by the size and placement of the window. Did he think to snatch the book from under the vampires' noses? Before they had the opportunityOh, God. Max was going to take the book himself! If he touched it before it was out of the house, he would die! Victoria launched herself from her shield of bushes before she realized that she couldn't go haring into the house willy-nilly.

And she realized quite suddenly that she had made a mistake. She should have told Aunt Eustacia and Max. For if she did not stop him in time, he would die... and she would be to blame. Chapter Eleven

In Which Maximilian Encounters Dust Bunnies Max paused, listening intently. He'd made it inside Redfield Manor with no problem at all. Not any surprise. This wasn't the first time he'd slipped into a building undetected, and it certainly wouldn't be the last. From his resources at the Silver Chalice, he knew that the Book of Antwartha was to be stolen tonight from this very location, and that Rudolph Caulfield had left the city, taking his servants with him, leaving an unsuspecting houseguest to watch over his belongings. This was their only chance to get the book before Lilith did; once she had it in her possession, hidden away wherever she was holding court, it would be impossible to retrieve it. He could not fail tonight. Satisfied that his presence hadn't been detected, and that there was no one about to come strolling around a bend in the servants' hallway, Max hurried along the passage. Although he wasn't familiar with the layout of the house, logic suggested that something of a valuable nature would be kept in a study, where it might be locked away, or in a private parlor in the personal quarters of the owner of the house. Max was hoping it would be the latter, as the private quarters would be on an upper level and less likely to be inhabited by the houseguest or investigated by his staff. The servants' staircase was accessible and would lead to the upper floors. The pale blue door that ended the passageway was made of warped and buckled wood, and it creaked faintly when Max opened it. He slipped through and dashed with light feet up the narrow steps, pausing at the top to listen. When silence continued to reign, he cracked the door and put his ear to the edge. A dull thump from near the front of the house, below, told him that at least someone was not in the vicinity. But then he heard the doorknob on the warped door below as it turned with a dull clink, and he couldn't wait any longer-he pressed through the narrow aperture and found himself in a blessedly carpeted hall on the second floor. On cat feet he hurried down the hall, pausing at each entrance to listen, gently open its door, and peer in. The rooms were dark and uninhabited, the furnishings covered with sheets or other protection, as if they hadn't been used for years. Mr. Caulfield had recently returned from India-which was how the Book of Antwartha had made its way from the colony to the mother country-and it was obvious his home had been closed up for that purpose. This would make Max's task easier, for the items brought from India, including the book, would stand out as new additions to the room, and would likely be in a chamber that was obviously in use. Max had three more rooms to search when he heard the door at the top of the servant staircase open at the far end of the hall. He pivoted through the door at which he stood and closed it swiftly and silently after him. Turning, he faced the room, hoping to heaven it was empty, for he hadn't time to check... and found himself in a bedchamber that had been used recently. Fortunately for him, it was empty, but Max couldn't be certain it would remain so. He heard footsteps moving down the hallway; they were barely discernible, but his hearing was nearly as acute as a vampire's. Max dove under the high bed, sliding the chamber pot, which fortunately was empty, out of the way and closing his eyes against the puffs of dust he'd stirred up. It tickled his nose and made his eyes water as he fought to keep from sneezing; any little bit of disturbance of the air seemed to go right into his nostrils. He pinched the bridge of his nose, right under the innermost edges of his brows, and felt the urge to sneeze dissipate. The door to the room opened, and someone came in. The back of Max's neck remained unchanged, so he kept his hand on the pocket where his pistol was. He couldn't see the person, couldn't look at his shoes to tell if it was a servant or the houseguest; but when he or she strode across the room and then back out, Max exhaled slowly. Likely the valet bringing some laundered clothing to the room, or even the houseguest coming up to retrieve something he'd forgotten. Good. He hadn't relished the thought of an altercation with a mortal. Vampires he could stake without a second thought; but fighting with or injuring a mortal was something he tried to avoid. He'd seen too much violence, and preferred staking vampires to fisticuffs because it was much neater. No blood, no cracking of bones, no mess. Just a small pile of ashes. Yet... to get the Book of Antwartha, Max would do whatever was necessary, because if he did not, an infinite number of mortals would be in danger. He waited until the quiet footsteps disappeared before he slid from under the bed and pulled himself to his feet. Brushing the dust from his dark pants, Max hurried toward the door. He had two more rooms to search on this level, and then he could move on to the third floor. It was a less likely location for something like the Book of Antwartha, but at least he could eliminate it before having to slink around on the main area, where he was more likely to be

found out. He poked his head out of the room and looked up and down the hall. Once again satisfied that he was alone, he stepped out and turned the knob of the room across the hall-and found himself in a library. Ah. He smiled in satisfaction. Crates and boxes stood against the wall, and next to a great armchair was a haphazard stack of books that certainly hadn't been sitting there for the years Caulfield had been in India. On one of the tables, he saw a box the size of a large book, open, like a treasure chest. Red silk wrappings spilled from its interior, and with a complacency borne of certainty, he started toward the table. The Book of Antwartha. It had to be. He approached the table eagerly, even as he kept one ear turned toward the hall, listening for unwelcome footsteps. Fingering a pistol in one pocket and a stake in the other, he bent toward the box to look in. Empty. He turned and then he saw it. By a tall window gray with twilight, in front of the wingback chair, it had been hidden from his view when he walked in. But this was certainly it: a large, dusty brown book with an embossed A on the cover, sitting on the table by the chair as if the person reading it had set it down in front of him. He moved closer, his ear still cocked toward the door, eyes on the book. He was just reaching for it when something flew from behind the long draperies and knocked him aside. He tumbled into the wingback chair, and the force followed in a tangle of skirts. "Don't touch it!" hissed a female voice that he suddenly, shockingly recognized. "Victoria? What in the bloody hell are you doing here?" He forgot to keep his voice down, and she slapped a hand over his mouth, jamming an elbow into his chest as she struggled to pull herself upright. Damn. She might not weigh much, but her elbows and hips were sharp as her tongue. "Be quiet!" she hissed, her mouth much too close to his ear. "I just saved your worthless life, you blasted fool. We don't need to be heard." Max disentangled himself from Victoria, slipping out from under her and letting her sag into the chair by herself. He stood, glaring down at her, and adjusted his jacket. "I repeat," he said from between clenched teeth, albeit at a lower tone than previously, "what in the blazes are you doing here?" "I repeat," she whispered, standing upright and shaking out dull, dark skirts, "I was saving your life. You cannot touch the Book of Antwartha," she cried as he reached for it. Her fingers closed over his wrist, barely wrapping around its circumference, and she gave him pause with her surprising strength. Ah, but yes... she wore a vis bulla. How could he forget? Max curled his lips into a smile that he knew wasn't pleasant in the least. "We have the chance to get it out of here now. Or is it that you want to be the one to bring it back? If that's your game, then I won't stand in the way-grab it and let's go!" "If I wanted to do that," Victoria replied pertly, "I would have let you touch it, then stepped over your dead body to take it to my aunt." He would have replied, but they both heard it at the same time: low voices and dull footsteps making their way down the corridor. Before he could react, Victoria snatched at his sleeve and pulled him with her toward the long draperies from which she'd come bursting forth. She shoved him toward one, and she ducked behind the other, and they stood like sentinels on either side of the window. If he turned his head he could see her profile, as she was backed against the wall. He wanted to shake his head to clear it. Max peered down and over his shoulder, trying to look through the window, and realized that it was cracked open. He could feel the faint brush of air on the fingertips he curled up behind him, on the sill. Slipping his fingers under the bottom rung of the sash, he pressed up gently, and felt the window move. If he could get it open... perhaps they could snatch the book and make their escape. He felt the window give more easily, and turned to see Victoria looking at him. She was pushing up with her fingertips as well, and with their combined strength they were able to lift the window... silently, slowly, surely. The back of his neck had chilled. The voices were closer now; they would be coming through the door at any moment if this chamber was their destination. He looked at the large bound manuscript, then back at Victoria, measuring his chance... but her hand whipped from behind the drapes and slammed into his chest. "No!" she hissed, drapes roiling about her. "I'll not say it again, you arrogant fool!" Then, just as the door opened, she snatched her arm back behind her covering curtain, pulling it straight and still. Max inched the drapes away from the shadowed side of the window where the sliver of his face peeking out would be less likely to be noticed. They filed in one after another. There were three of them; two Guardian vampires and one mortal. Sebastian Vioget. He should have known. The man always seemed to be where he should not be. Max realized his fingers had closed around the drapes in a fierce movement, and he released the heavy brocade slowly so as not to draw attention. So far, he had escaped detection; this was not the first time he was grateful that

vampires could not sense the presence of a Venator. But then... Vioget looked directly toward him. Max did not move, merely watching as Vioget transferred his attention to the other side of the window, where Victoria stood, then continued his conversation with the vampires. "I believe this is the item which you seek," Vioget was saying, and he gestured to the table only inches away from Victoria. One of the vampires grunted and stepped forward to touch the aged tome, and Max felt Vioget look toward him again. He groped in his pocket for the pistol; he'd use it if he had to. He could not let those vampires take the book. While the three were bent over the table, one of the vampires thumbed carelessly through the ancient pages as though confirming it was the real thing, Max chanced a glance over at Victoria. She was not looking from behind the curtain, but stood rigidly against the wall, as far away from the draperies as possible. Was she frightened? She damn well ought to be! If she hadn't stopped him, they would have had the book and been out the window by now. Max considered his options. He could burst from behind the curtains and attempt to take them by surprise. Vioget's hands were both in view; he at least did not have a weapon at hand, although he might have one on his person. That would be like him. The vampires were bound to be two of Lilith's strongest and smartest Guardians; she would not send any but the best for this task. He'd get one for certain, the second one easily if Vioget did not interfere. Or Victoria. Why could he not touch the book? Blasted woman. And then suddenly Max's options evaporated with a swish of the curtains as Vioget flung them aside, exposing him. "Maximilian. I did not expect to see you here this evening," he said with a condescending smile. But Max had his pistol out and was pointing it at the blondish French fop before he could finish his thought. "I highly doubt that," he responded, stepping fully from behind the curtain, pistol in one hand and stake in the other. He did not look back, but his peripheral vision told him that Victoria had not moved. Perhaps she would be smart enough to come to his aid. Not that he needed her assistance, but it was better to be safe than to lose the book. "Now," Max said pleasantly, "if you will step aside I promise not to hurt you, Vioget, as I know that the continued safety of your person is your greatest concern. But these other two... gentlemen... well, they may not be so lucky." He barely had the words from his mouth when the two vampires, ruby-eyed and with fangs gleaming, were on him. The pistol was of no use; he allowed it to drop to the floor as the force of the launching vampires knocked him to the rug. One of them pinned the wrist holding the stake to the floor above his head, using two hands, whilst the other straddled him at the waist, fighting to capture his other hand. Max grunted, drawing his knees and feet toward his body, and with one quick, strong movement, hooked his feet around the front of the vampire's neck and whipped him into a backward somersault. The vampire crashed into a table behind him. Max rolled to the side, slipped a second stake from the sleeve of his shirt, and slammed it into the chest of the vampire still holding his wrist down before the Guardian knew what had happened. Before the ashes hit the floor Max was on his feet, facing the other vampire, who was coming at him with a gleaming sword and a feral smile that sported two fangs digging into his bottom lip. With a quick glance at the rest of the room-Vioget was watching in amusement, his arms folded over his middle, and Victoria was nowhere to be seen-Max returned his attention to the vampire as the blade sliced in the air in front of him. He leaped aside, vaulting over the wingback chair, then, standing behind it, hefted it by the arms and shoved it at his adversary. Max followed the momentum of the chair and came after the vampire, slamming him into the floor only inches from Victoria's draperies. He didn't need her assistance. She was probably cowering behind, too frightened to move. She should have stayed home with her marquess. Anger surged through him, and he used it to drive the stake into the second vampire's heart. "Et voilà!" Vioget murmured as Max rose to his feet, breathing deeply, but by no means winded. Keeping a steady eye on the other man, Max started toward the table where the book had been jolted to the edge during the fracas. He wished briefly for his pistol, but as Vioget stood with no indication that he would attempt to stop him, Max thrust the concern from his mind. He reached the table and stretched out his hands to lift the heavy book... and stopped. Two things occurred to him at that moment. First, Victoria's warning had been vehement. Second, Vioget had not touched the book himself, even when the vampires were looking through it. But the vampires had touched it. Then a third realization: Victoria had been in the room before he had... she could easily have taken it if it had been her intent to one-up him. She, at least, believed there was a reason he should not touch the book. He made a show of adjusting his sleeves, taking the opportunity to shift slightly to one side so he could better see Vioget from the corner of his eye, and reached for the book again... and again paused. Yes, it was there: the almost imperceptible change in Vioget's stance. Oh, he hid it well, but not well enough. Yes, there was something about the book. Victoria, it appeared, had been right. And, Max realized with a suddenly bitter taste, quite possibly had saved his... what had she called it? His worthless life. "You did come for the Book of Antwartha, did you not?" asked Vioget in that falsely pleasant tone.

