Chapter Twenty-four

In Which Three Gentlemen Meet Up Late in the second day after Victoria had told him her fantastical story, Phillip realized what he needed to do. Certainly, he'd already visited Bridge and Stokes, and found it closed, "due to death." And there definitely had been rumblings about the attacks that had happened there; but no one had mentioned vampires. He'd even gone so far as to drive his curricle to Victoria's cousin Maximilian's home, planning to confront him as he had done before... but the man was not home, and the dark-skinned butler was unable to tell Phillip when his master would return within a day. One thing he knew he could not do, yet, was to face Victoria. So he did not return to St. Heath's Row. Instead he hired a hackney to take him to St. Giles. To the place he'd followed Victoria, to the establishment called the Silver Chalice. There he would find the answer. Oh, he wasn't foolish. Numb, perhaps, dull and mind-fractured with grief and pain... but not foolish. He prepared: He wore a crucifix under his coat. He stuffed full bulbs of garlic in his pockets. He even found something that could be used as a wooden stake-a broken walking stick in the cloakroom at White's. Phillip didn't believe in vampires, and though he hadn't wasted his time reading that ridiculous novel by Polidori, he knew what lore said about protecting oneself from the undead. But he also pocketed a gun. When Max walked into the Silver Chalice for the third night in a row, he knew something bad was going to happen. It was about time; he'd been waiting for it all to explode for three days. Ever since that first raid at Vauxhall, followed by the one at Bridge and Stokes, he'd known this was leading up to something. Lilith's patience had worn thin. What he didn't expect-couldn't have fathomed finding-was the Marquess of Rockley sitting companionably at a table with Sebastian Vioget. Before he had a chance to wonder about it, Vioget looked up and saw him standing at the entrance. The faintest flare of a smile tipped his mouth, and he nodded to Max. Max started toward them. No matter how cunning Lilith was, this could not be part of her plan. "Good evening, Rockley," Max said as he approached the table. "Pesaro. Why am I not surprised to see you here." True to his words, there was no inflection in his voice. "Perhaps, but it is I who am at a disadvantage. I would have believed that after your last visit, you would have actually learned something. Namely that there are places where you are not welcome... and not safe." "Vioget here has assured me that that is not the case, that I have nothing to fear while I am in his establishment. Victoria has told me everything." "Indeed? But you did not believe her, so you came here to find out for yourself. Foolish man. If I had not arrived, you would be at the mercy of this man's whim." So she had told him. Max's eyes slitted as they scored over the marquess: his sleepy eyes, perfect hair, tailored and pressed clothing. The man had walked into this den of the undead, disbelieving, and wholly unprepared to face the results of his actions. He was as good as dead unless Max intervened. Again. "If you had not arrived, we would have continued our conversation most pleasantly," Vioget returned coolly. "Now, if you please, Maximilian-" But before he could finish, a bad sound behind Max grabbed the attention of both of them. He whirled as Sebastian bolted to his feet. Imperials. Five of them-more than Max had ever seen together at one time-standing at the bottom of the stairs, swords drawn, red-violet eyes glowing. Only one of them smiled, and his fangs gleamed. Max heard Rockley's intake of breath. Too late, poor bastard. The room had quieted, and the tension pulsed like a dying heartbeat. "Good evening and welcome to the Silver Chalice." Max had to give Vioget credit; his voice was as smooth and unruffled as if he'd been greeting a lady for tea. But Max knew that five Imperials were not here for tea, or for libation of any kind. Even the fresh sort. Lilith had sent them. The leader of the Imperials took three steps. The undead at the tables near him shrank away. Imperials, when

angered, had been known to cannibalize their own. "Sebastian Vioget, we have been sent to escort you to the presence of our mistress." "Please give her my apologies, but as you can see, I am otherwise engaged this evening." Max noticed that Vioget had shifted himself back toward the brick wall behind Rockley. Under the guise of adjusting his coat, Max moved to the left of Rockley, placing him between Sebastian and himself and only a few inches from the hidden doorway. Max wasn't about to let Vioget get through there without the two of them. Not for the first time, he wondered how he had been saddled with babysitting a marquess... yet again. "You are amusing, Vioget. Now, you can make this simple... or you can make it difficult." The way the Imperial leader caressed his lower lip with his left fang indicated that he much preferred difficulties. Max touched Rockley and felt the rigidity of his shoulder. "Be ready," he said softly, without moving his lips. "Behind you." But they never had a chance. Suddenly the room was a flurry of movement-a table went flying, swords flashed, chairs splintered; there were shouts, screams, and the thuds of flesh on flesh. Max grabbed Rockley and threw him under the table, then followed. Forget the hidden door; they would try to slink out by edging along the walls. Phillip, who had found himself unable to move, suddenly knew his only chance to escape was to follow Victoria's cousin on the floor under the tables. He let go of the gun in his pocket, realizing, at last, what Pesaro and Victoria had been trying to tell him. Too late. It hadn't been enough-the hypnotic tug and pull of the eyes of the customers in the inn, the way they seemed to bore into him and soften him... no, it wasn't until those five men, with burning eyes and lethal weapons, had exploded into the place that he realized that he was going to die. He was going to die with accusations and anger toward his wife hanging between them. Knowing instinctively that the crucifix in his pocket would be little protection against the five creatures, Phillip scrambled across the floor after Max, pinning his only hope of survival on the man who seemed to know what to do. Shards of glass and splinters of wood cut into his fine breeches, sliced into his hands. Something dark and sticky spilled onto his head and shoulders from the tables above. Rust's stench filled his nose. There was a loud crash behind them, and he smelled the spill of lantern oil and, closely thereafter, the clogging scent of raging fire. He and Pesaro miraculously reached the curve of wall that ended at the bottom of the stairs to this place he would forever think of as hell. Shouts and the sounds of fighting followed them as they inched along the wall under the cover of a sudden thick smoke, and Phillip wanted to shout in triumph when they touched the bottom stair. Stumbling up the steps, Phillip saw his guide look back, pausing on the stairs. He pushed past Max, onward, recognizing that there was no hope of helping Vioget. Or anyone else in the way of those five monsters. But when he reached the top-freedom-he found himself facing two more of the creatures. Their eyes were red, and they did not carry swords. One was a woman. But, as unfamiliar with these demons as he was, Phillip recognized that they were vampires by the way he slogged into futile motions when he was caught by her gaze. "How lovely," she said in a throaty voice. "Just what I needed. And I thought I would miss all the fun, being stationed up here." He couldn't fight it; her eyes trapped him. He was picked up and carried effortlessly away... away somewhere. He struggled; he couldn't break free... she held him close, and he felt her heart beating in him, through him, as if wrapped in some kind of tendril that tightened with each struggle. She shoved him somewhere; he fell onto something upholstered and struggled to get away. He was in a carriage; he could see out the door; they had Pesaro. They were dragging him toward the carriage, but she pulled him back, away from the opening. "Now, my lovely," she said, and he looked into her eyes. He couldn't help it. They compelled him like nothing ever had. He was vaguely aware of a heavy burden tossed in next to him, for it broke the connection for the barest of moments. "My lovely," she said again, and her strong fingers filtered through his hair like a lover's. Like Victoria's. Then she tightened them, pulled his head back hard, and he cried out at the shock. She bent to him; her lips were warm and cool at the same time. They touched the curve of his neck, the soft part now open and bare. He struggled, but she pulled away and looked at him, settling him with her eyes. "It won't hurt, my lovely... my lovely." She licked his face, closed her mouth over his, and thrust her tongue into it. Choking him... yet pleasing him. When she pulled away, he tasted blood... and she was licking her lips. He wanted to lick them too. Someone was struggling next to him in the carriage. It jolted him, and the female vampire hissed, "Subdue the Venator. But control yourself. The mistress will have your heart if you feed on him." Then she returned to Phillip, smiling, calling him with her eyes. "And what is your name, my lovely? You are too pretty to remain nameless. Perhaps I will keep you." He wanted to answer; he didn't want to answer... He had no choice. Her red eyes, circled with black, pinpointed with black too, compelled him to respond. "Phillip..." he managed. "Rockley..." Her eyes widened in shock; her control slipped. Sharp nails dug into his scalp and into the upper arm she held. "You

are Rockley? Married to Victoria?" Faintly, above the rushing in his ears, he heard a desperate 'No.'" but Pesaro's groan could not stop him from responding, "Yes." The woman vampire smiled, looking at him. Her fangs were long and pretty. He wanted them on him, in him. His cock throbbed in anticipation. He drew in a deep breath when she bent to his flesh. She teased him for a moment, her lips, her tongue, her fangs nicking, nibbling. "That changes things," she murmured, and sank her fangs into his ear. He groaned as pleasure and pain stormed through him... like nothing he'd felt before. Warm liquid dripped on his neck; he could smell it-smell it on her breath when she came back to his mouth. He wanted to breathe it too. "I won't have to kill you now." She drew in a long breath and exhaled, slowly, delicately... breathing warm into his flesh and blood as she sank her teeth into his shoulder. Chapter Twenty-five

The Marquess, the Venator, and the Innkeeper Go Missing Victoria had just returned to St. Heath's Row after a dinner party at Grantworth House when the message arrived. She'd been hard-pressed to explain to her mother why her new husband hadn't attended with her; and it was even more difficult to extricate herself from the after-dinner socializing... but she had pleaded exhaustion. Apparently the blue-black circles under her eyes were enough to convince her mother that she was unfit for a late night. And if Lady Melly believed the reason was due to an impending happy event, well, Victoria was too heartsick to fight with her on it. Thus, she had just begun to unpin her hair when the messenger arrived to deliver a note. She didn't recognize the handwriting, but the seal was gold and bore the imprint of a bold V surrounded by trellises and cups. It could be from only one person... she tore it open. I am in possession of something of apparent value to you, although your actions in my coach led me to believe otherwise. He will be safe until you arrive. You have my word. S. His word? She threw the note on her dresser and called for Verbena to help her change. A visit to the Silver Chalice required some preparation. But when Victoria arrived at the Chalice, or what had been the Chalice, it became clear that no preparation could have readied her for the scene that faced her. It was three o'clock in the morning, and where the bar should have been overflowing with customers coming and going on the steps, it was silent. The acrid smell of burned wood, spilled blood, and fear assailed her as she hurried down the steps. The place was in shambles. Tables, cups, chairs, bottles... even bodies, the piano... everything was strewn all over the floor. Half of it was burned; the place stank of ash and oil. Victoria walked into the room, hoping to find something... anything to tell her what had happened. Max was supposed to be here, she remembered suddenly. Had he been caught in this? Was he dead? And Phillip? Sebastian had promised to keep him safe... Cold settled over her, a deep, penetrating, final iciness. Max. Phillip. Sebastian. They had all been there. Max opened his eyes. The room was hot and shadowed, the only illumination from flames licking one long wall. At first he thought he was in hell... but then he realized he wasn't so lucky. "Maximilian." He tried to block her voice... but he was too weary. His strength sapped away, he had little resistance. Especially to her. "Look at me, Maximilian," she crooned, her words bumping over him like a gentle hand. He closed his eyes. "Why do you turn away? You know you cannot deny yourself." He pulled himself up from his sprawled position on the floor. His hands were not restrained, but she would have no need to do that. He was powerless in many ways in her presence. "It has been so long since you have come to me, Maximilian."

The way she said his name made him feel as though a thousand centipedes scuttled over his skin... yet... it lingered on the air, his name from her lips. A chain that bound them together. "I did not come to you, Lilith." It took all he had to make those words easy, smooth. To say her name to her face. Her laugh, low like barely a breath, curled around him. "You always did need a bit of persuasion. Come here, Maximilian. Come to me." He stood, then forced his limbs to do his bidding and not hers... and leaned against the wall, settling one of his hands over his left nipple, touching his vis bulla. Thank God even she could not touch that. A wave of strength flowed through him and he concentrated on it, pulled the force from the holy silver he wore. And he turned, then, against the wall to look at her. She lounged on a long white chaise. Her eyes-he could meet them for only a moment-were almond-shaped, beautifully lashed, deep-set... and blue ringed with red. "Ah, you are more yourself now, aren't you, Maximilian? I much prefer you in your alpha state than that mass of weakness my servants dumped here last night." "Last night?" She nodded once, regally. "Is Rockley dead?" "Rockley? Oh, no... no, my dear, I have other uses for him." Max closed his eyes. If the man had kept his mouth shut, and never told the vampire his name, he would be dead. And safe. The connection to Victoria wouldn't have been made. "Now, Max, my dear, it has been too long. You must come to me." The liquid summons in her voice pulled at him. His hands and feet began to tremble with the effort of keeping them motionless, under his control. Sweat gathered at his frozen nape, dripped down beneath his shirt. The scars on his neck burned and throbbed, responding to her call. > Still he resisted. He rolled along the wall, away from her. He felt her move; his eyes were closed in concentration, but he felt her come toward him. He steeled himself, felt the wall under his hands and cheek, and tried to grip it. It was too smooth. Tall as a man, she breathed on him from behind. Her presence cloaked him, smothering and stifling... and she was not yet touching him. One of her hands reached up-he felt the air move-and she touched his hair, smoothed it, stroked it, while she drew in her breath in a long, languorous caress... and exhaled. She tipped his head to the side gently. He let her. She stepped closer and now he felt her breasts and the curve of her mound pressing into his spine and his rear. He moved his hand between himself and the wall, touching the vis bulla, and breathed. His neck was open to her; she was tall, tall enough to press her lips, one cold, one hot, to the skin there. He shuddered when she touched him. Closed his eyes. Waited. She toyed with him. Laughed against his skin, breathed on its moisture, scraped him with one sharp incisor. Her heartbeat became one with his. She melted into him from behind. His shirt was wet everywhere; he could hear nothing but her pulse. When she ran her long, sharp nails from his shoulder to the base of his back, he felt his shirt give under them. It fell away under her hands, and when she pressed up behind him again, touching his bare back, he wanted to let go. Stop fighting. The smell of his blood from her scoring nails filled his nostrils... she closed her lips over the edge of his shoulder, where the cuts had begun, and where they were the deepest, and he felt her tongue slip through the wetness. She sighed, and her lips curved with pleasure against him. "Maximilian... you taste like no one else." He marshaled his strength. "I do not consider that a compliment." Laughing in delight, she sucked hard at his shoulder. "Taste." She pulled his head back at an impossible angle, and covered his mouth with her blooded lips. He tasted it, the heavy iron flavor, her cold, slick tongue. He took her kiss and wanted more. Damn it. He wanted more. Her hands slipped around under his arms, over his belly. They curled up over the center of his chest, raising the hair that grew there. He arched back, lifting his chest, tipping his head back at the command of her hands. They slipped apart, to the sides and over his nipples, and she jerked, startled, and removed them. Laughing. "That is another thing about you, Maximilian... you are the only one to give me pleasure and pain, rolled into one." And then she pulled away, stepped back; he felt the coolness of her absence on his bare skin. He breathed deeply, resting his forehead against the wall. When she brushed his vis bulla, her pain had given him a needed jolt of strength. It had been like that every time before... she craved that combination of pleasure and the unexpected zaps of pain when she came near the holy silver cross. She liked the power it gave him, too, the added strength that allowed him to fight her when he touched it. Because she knew she would always win. Max became aware that she was speaking to someone, and he turned, focusing, in time to see Lilith's gleaming

white smile. "I'm afraid you will have to wait a bit longer, dear Maximilian. My guest has arrived, and they are showing her in." Max turned from the wall, the fog and rapture sliding away. Things had gone from worse to unimaginable. The guest could only be Victoria. Chapter Twenty-six

The Marchioness Is Received Victoria shifted the heavy satchel over one shoulder, holding its heavy bulk against her hip as she followed the two Imperials into a large room. She had to blink to allow her eyes to adjust to the dark room after being in the morning sunshine. The Imperials, swathed in black from head to toe, had led her from the meeting place Lilith had specified into the cavernous room of a ruined estate ten miles outside of London. Kritanu and Briyani, who had accompanied her, had been ordered to remain with the carriage-an order, Victoria knew, they would ignore as soon as the vampires had taken her within. The windows were painted black and covered with boards to keep the dangerous sun from filtering in. Inside, the cool, damp air and low light made her skin feel clammy, but when they rounded the corner into what appeared to be a receiving room, there were blazing fires in large fireplaces at every corner. Sunlight burned the undead; fire did not. A vampire could walk through a blaze and be unscathed. At one end of the chamber was a low dais that made her think of a throne room, or a great hall in a medieval castle. In fact, this room, with tall windows boarded over and a ceiling that stretched into a large black-painted dome likely was the hall at one time. Vampires of all types were in the room, perhaps two dozen of them all told: regular undead, Guardians, and several Imperials. To the side of the dais was a large shallow dish that held a tall, roaring blaze, giving heat and illumination to the woman who sat on a massive chair in the center of the dais. Lilith, of course. Victoria looked at the vampire queen, meeting her blue-red eyes for only a brief moment, as Aunt Eustacia had warned, and then letting her attention skitter over the rest of her figure, which was slender, almost emaciated. Her skin was the blue-white hue Victoria had expected... but her hair, long and rippling down either side of her shoulders and over her breasts, was brilliant copper. It burned the eye, it was so bright. She must have been older than Victoria when she was turned undead; her immortal age was near thirty. She was not beautiful, but horribly elegant. The lids of her eyes were so thin and cold they were purple; her cheekbones jutted out, forming the same colored hollows below. Her lips curved in a welcome smile, the gray-blue of them plump and sensual. Her hands, gathered in her lap, boasted long, pointed nails. And she had five dark marks that, even from her distance, Victoria could see formed the span of a half-moon from the top of her cheekbone to the side of her chin. Lilith the Dark was not so much dark as she was burning and frigid at the same time-ethereal, with her fair skin and narrow wrists, sinewy neck, and long, elegantly crossed legs. "Victoria Gardella. How pleased I am that you have joined us." "Where is my husband?" Her voice came out strong and bold. "Where are your manners, Marchioness?" "I am here to make an exchange, not to have tea." "Well, then let us get on with it. You have interrupted my pleasure." Victoria followed Lilith's gesture and stopped breathing. Max. That was Max. He stood to one side of the dais, having been in the shadows until Lilith's gesture caused someone from behind to jab him forward. His shirt hung in shreds about his waist; his arms hung at his sides. Blood streaked his shoulders, and his bare torso was covered with dark hair, slashing scars, and sweat. Her attention focused on the glint of silver that pierced one flat nipple. As she gaped, he raised his face and looked at her. His eyes were flat and chill. Rattled and suddenly terrified, Victoria turned her attention away and back onto Lilith, who had been watching with interest. "Two Venators as guests at one time. I have never been so fortunate." "Now, where is my husband?" Then she heard him. "Victoria!" She spun and saw that he was being brought in the room, chained-as if poor Phillip could do any damage to the creatures in this room!-but alive. And walking on his own. Victoria turned back to Lilith. "He does not need to be chained. Let him loose and we will discuss our exchange." "Discuss? There is nothing to discuss. If you wish to have your husband back, you will provide me with the Book of Antwartha." Victoria smiled at her. Wayren had been at Aunt Eustacia's when the message came from Lilith. "I will provide you with the book when you have met my requirements. The protection has changed, and the book must be given to
