Republic carried lightsabers, even those who were primarily healers or teachers."

 She nodded. "All right," she said. "As soon as my work load lightens up a little."

 "Beforeyour work load lightens," Han insisted. "I mean that, Leia. All these wonderful 
diplomacy skills of yours aren't going to do you or anyone else any good if the Empire 
locks you away in an interrogation room somewhere."

 Reluctantly, Leia nodded again. "I suppose you're right. As soon as we get back, I'll tell 
Mon Mothma she's just going to have to cut down on my assignments." She smiled at 
Luke. "I guess semester break's over, Teacher."

 "I guess so," Luke said, trying to hide the sudden lump inhis throat.

 Leia noticed it anyway; and, for a wonder, misinterpreted it. "Oh, come on," she chided 
gently. "I'm notthat bad a student. Anyway, look on it as good practice¢after all, someday 
you'll have to teach all this to the twins, too."

 "I know," Luke said softly.

 "Good," Han said. "That's settled, then. I'm heading up; see you later."

 " 'Bye," Leia said. "Now¢" She turned to give Threepio a critical look. "Let's see what 
we can do about all this goop."

 Leaning back in his seat, Luke watched her tackle the hardened webbing, a familiar 
hollow pain in the pit of his stomach.I took it upon myself, Ben Kenobi had said about 
Darth Vader,to train him as a Jedi. I thought that I could instruct him just as well as 
Yoda.

 I was wrong.

 The words echoed through Luke's mind, all the way back to Coruscant.

  

 Chapter 8

 For a long minute Grand Admiral Thrawn sat in his chair, surrounded by his 
holographic works of art, and said nothing. Pellaeon kept himself at a motionless 
attention, watching the other's expressionless face and glowing red eyes and trying not to 
think about the fate couriers of bad news had often suffered at the hands of Lord Vader. 
"All died but the coordinator, then?" Thrawn asked at last.

 "Yes, sir," Pellaeon confirmed. He glanced across the room, to where C'baoth stood 
studying one of the wall displays, and lowered his voice a bit. "We're still not entirely 
sure what went wrong."

 "Instruct Central to give the coordinator a thorough debriefing," Thrawn said. "What 
report from Wayland?"

 Pellaeon had thought they'd been talking too quietly for C'baoth to hear them. He was 
wrong. "Is that it, then?" C'baoth demanded, turning away from the display and striding 
over to tower over Thrawn's command chair. "Your Noghri have failed; so too bad, and 
on to more pressing business? You promised me Jedi, Grand Admiral Thrawn."

 Thrawn gazed coolly up at him. "I promised you Jedi," he acknowledged. "And I will 
deliver them." Deliberately, he turned back to Pellaeon. "What report from Wayland?" he 
repeated.

 Pellaeon swallowed, trying hard to remember that with ysalamiri scattered all through 
the command room, C'baoth had no power whatsoever. At least for the moment. "The 
engineering team has finished its analysis, sir," he told Thrawn. "They report that the 
cloaking shield schematics seem complete, but that to actually build one will take some 
time. It'll also be highly expensive, at least for a ship the size of theChimaera ."

 "Fortunately, they won't have to start with anything nearly this big," Thrawn said, 
handing Pellaeon a data card. "Here are the specs for what we'll need at Sluis Van."

 "The shipyards?" Pellaeon frowned, taking the data card. The Grand Admiral had so far 
been very secretive about both his goals and the strategy for that attack.

 "Yes. Oh, and we're also going to need some advanced mining machines¢mole miners, I 
believe they're informally called. Have Intelligence start a records search; we'll need a 
minimum of forty."

 "Yes, sir." Pellaeon made a note on his data pad. "One other thing, sir." He threw a 
quick glance at C'baoth. "The engineers also report that nearly eighty percent of the 
Spaarti cylinders we'll need are functional or can be restored to working order with 
relative ease."

 "Spaarti cylinders?" C'baoth frowned. "What are those?"

 "Just that other little bit of technology I was hoping to find in the mountain," Thrawn 
soothed him, throwing a quick warning look in Pellaeon's direction. An unnecessary 
precaution; Pellaeon had already decided that discussing Spaarti cylinders with C'baoth 
would not be a smart thing to do. "So. Eighty percent. That's excellent, Captain. 
Excellent." A gleam came into those glowing eyes. "How very thoughtful of the Emperor 
to have left such fine equipment for us to rebuild his Empire with. What about the 
mountain's power and defense systems?"

 "Also operational, for the most part," Pellaeon said. "Three of the four reactors have 
already been brought on line. Some of the more esoteric defenses seem to have decayed, 
but what's left should defend the storehouse more than adequately."

 "Again, excellent," Thrawn nodded. The brief flicker of emotion was gone, and he was 
all cool business again. "Instruct them to begin bringing the cylinders to full operational 
status. TheDeath's Head should arrive within two or three days with the extra specialists 
and two hundred ysalamiri they'll need to get things started. At that point¢" he smiled 
faintly "¢we'll be ready to begin the operation in earnest. Beginning with the Sluis Van 
shipyards."

 "Yes, sir." Pellaeon glanced at C'baoth again. "And about Skywalker and his sister?"

 "We'll use Team Four next," the Grand Admiral said. "Transmit a message telling them 
to withdraw from their current assignment and stand ready for further orders."

 "You wantme to transmit the message, sir?" Pellaeon asked. "Not that I'm questioning 
the order," he added hastily. "But in the past you've usually preferred to contact them 
yourself."

 Thrawn's eyebrows lifted slightly. "Team Eight failed me," he said softly. "Sending the 
message through you will let the others know how displeased I am."

 "And when Team Four also fails you?" C'baoth put in. "They will, you know. Will you 
be merelydispleased with them, too? Or will you admit your professional killing 
machines simply can't handle a Jedi?"

 "They've never yet met any foe they can't handle, Master C'baoth," Thrawn said coolly. 
"One group or another will succeed. Until then¢" He shrugged. "A few Noghri, more or 
less, won't seriously drain our resources."

 Pellaeon winced, throwing a reflexive glance at the chamber door. Rukh, he suspected, 
wouldn't be nearly that phlegmatic about the casually proposed deaths of some of his 
people. "On the other hand, Admiral, this attempt will have put them on their guard," he 
pointed out.

 "He's right," C'baoth said, jabbing a finger in Pellaeon's direction. "You can't fool a Jedi 
twice with the same trick."

 "Perhaps," Thrawn said, the word polite but his tone not conceding anything. "What 
alternative do you suggest? That we concentrate on his sister and leave him alone?"

 "Thatyou concentrate on his sister, yes," C'baoth agreed loftily. "I think it best that I deal 
with the young Jedi myself."

 Again, the eyebrows went up. "And how would you propose to do that?"

 C'baoth smiled. "He is a Jedi; I am a Jedi. If I call, he will come to me."

 For a long moment Thrawn looked up at him. "I need you with my fleet," he said at last. 
"Preparations for the assault on the Rebellion's Sluis Van space dock facilities have 
already begun. Some of the preliminaries to that assault will require a Jedi Master's 
coordination."

 C'baoth drew himself up to his full height. "My assistance was promised only uponyour 
promise to deliver my Jedi to me. I will have them, Grand Admiral Thrawn."

 Thrawn's glowing eyes bored into C'baoth's. "Does a Jedi Master go back on his word, 
then? You knew that obtaining Skywalker for you might take some time."

 "All the more reason for me to begin now," C'baoth shot back.

 "Why can't we do both?" Pellaeon cut in.

 Both looked at him. "Explain, Captain," Thrawn ordered, a hint of threat audible in his 
tone.

 Pellaeon gritted his teeth, but it was too late to back out now. "We could begin by 
starting rumors of your presence somewhere, Master C'baoth," he said. "Some sparsely 
populated world where you might have lived for years without anyone really noticing. 
Rumors of that sort would be certain to make their way back to the New Rep¢ to the 
Rebellion," he corrected, glancing at Thrawn. "Particularly with the name Jorus C'baoth 
attached to them."

 C'baoth snorted. "And you think that on the strength of an idle rumor he'll rush foolishly 
to find me?"

 "Let him be as cautious as he likes," Thrawn said thoughtfully, the threat gone from his 
voice. "Let him bring half the Rebellion's forces with him, if he chooses. There will be 
nothing there to connect you to us."

 Pellaeon nodded. "And while we find a suitable planet and start the rumors into motion, 
you can remain here to assist with the Sluis Van preliminaries. Hopefully, their response 
to our activities will keep Skywalker too busy to check out the stories until after the Sluis 
Van part is over."

 "And if not," Thrawn added, "we'll know when he makes his move, and in plenty of 
time to get you there ahead of him."

 "Hmm," C'baoth murmured, stroking his long beard, his gaze drifting off to infinity. 
Pellaeon held his breath... and after a minute the other abruptly nodded. "Very well," he 
said. "The plan is sound. I will go to my chambers now, Grand Admiral Thrawn, and 
choose a world from which to make my appearance." With an almost regal nod to each of 
them, he strode out.

 "Congratulations, Captain," Thrawn said, eyeing Pellaeon coolly. "Your idea seems to 
have caught Master C'baoth's fancy."

 Pellaeon forced himself to meet that gaze. "I apologize, Admiral, if I spoke out of turn."

 Thrawn smiled faintly. "You served too long under Lord Vader, Captain," he said. "I 
have no qualms about accepting a useful idea merely because it wasn't my own. My 
position and ego are not at stake here."

 Except, perhaps, when dealing with C'baoth..."Yes, sir," Pellaeon said aloud. "With 
your permission, Admiral, I'll go prepare those transmissions to the Wayland and Noghri 
teams."

 "At your convenience, Captain. And continue to monitor the preparations for the Sluis 
Van operation." Thrawn's glowing eyes seemed to bore into his. "Monitor them closely, 
Captain. With Mount Tantiss and Sluis Van both, the long path to victory over the 
Rebellion will have begun. With, or even without, our Jedi Master."

  

 In theory, Inner Council meetings were supposed to be a quieter, more casual sort of 
encounter than the more formal Provisional Council things. In actual practice, Han had 
long ago found out, an Inner Council grilling could be just as rough as being raked over 
the fires by the larger group.

 "Let me get this straight, then, Captain Solo," Borsk Fey'lya said with his usual oily 
politeness. "You, alone, and without consultation with anyone in official authority, made 
the decision to cancel the Bimmisaari mission."

 "I've already said that," Han told him. He felt like suggesting to the Bothan that he pay 
better attention. "I've also stated my reasons for doing so."

 "Which, in my opinion, were good and proper ones," Admiral Ackbar's gravelly voice 
interjected in Han's support. "Captain Solo's duty at that point was abundantly clear: to 
protect the ambassador in his charge and to return safely to alert us."

 "Alert us to what?" Fey'lya countered. "Forgive me, Admiral, but I don't understand 
what exactly this threat is we're supposedly facing. Whoever these gray-skinned beings 
were, they clearly weren't considered important enough by the Old Senate to even be 
included in the records. I doubt a race that insignificant is likely to be capable of 
mounting a major offensive against us."

 "We don'tknow that that's the reason they aren't in the records," Leia put in. "It could 
simply be an oversight or gap damage."

 "Or else a deliberate erasure," Luke said.

 Fey'lya's fur rippled, indicating polite disbelief. "And why would the Imperial Senate 
want to erase the records of an entire race's existence?"

 "I didn't say it was necessarily the Senate's idea," Luke said. "Maybe the aliens 
themselves destroyed their records."

 Fey'lya sniffed. "Farfetched. Even if it was possible, why would anyone want to do it?"

 "Perhaps Councilor Organa Solo can answer that," Mon Mothma interjected calmly, 
looking at Leia. "You were more involved in the informational side of the Imperial 
Senate than I was, Leia. Would such a manipulation have been possible?"

 "I really don't know," Leia said, shaking her head. "I never got all that deeply into the 
actual mechanics of how the Senate's records were handled. Common wisdom, though, 
would suggest that it's impossible to create a security system that can't be broken by 
someone determined enough to do it."

 "That still doesn't answer the question of why these aliens of yours would be that 
determined," Fey'lya sniffed.

 "Maybe they saw the Old Republic's coming demise," Leia told him, her voice starting 
to sound a little irritated. "They might have erased all references to themselves and their 
world in hopes the rising Empire might not notice them."

 Fey'lya was fast, all right; Han had to give him that. "In that case," the Bothan smoothly 
switched gears, "perhaps a fear of rediscovery was all that motivatedthis attack, as well." 
He looked at Ackbar. "Regardless, I see no reason to make a full-fledged military 
operation out of this. To reduce our glorious forces to the level of a mere diplomatic 
entourage is an insult to their courage and their fighting spirit."

 "You can dispense with the speeches, Councilor," Ackbar rumbled. "None of our 
'glorious forces' are here to be impressed by them."

 "I say only what I feel, Admiral," Fey'lya said, with that air of wounded pride he did so 
well.

 Ackbar's eyes swiveled toward Fey'lya¢ "I wonder," Leia spoke up quickly, "if we could 
get back to the original subject here. I presume it hasn't escaped anyone's notice that, 
whatever their motivation, the aliens were ready and waiting for us when we reached 
Bimmisaari."

 "We're going to need tighter security for these missions, obviously," Ackbar said. "At 
both ends¢your attackersdid suborn a local Bimm politician, after all."

 "All of which will cost that much more time and effort," Fey'lya murmured, a section of 
his fur rippling.

 "It can't be helped," Mon Mothma said firmly. "If we don't protect our negotiators, the 
New Republic will stagnate and wither. Accordingly¢" she looked at Ackbar "¢you will 
detail a force to accompany Councilor Organa Solo on her trip back to Bimmisaari 
tomorrow."

 Tomorrow?Han threw a sharp look at Leia, got an equally surprised look in return. 
"Excuse me," he said, raising a finger. "Tomorrow?"

 Mon Mothma looked at him, an expression of mild surprise on her face. "Yes, 
tomorrow. The Bimms are still waiting, Captain."

 "I know, but¢"

 "What Han is trying to say," Leia jumped in, "is that I had intended at this meeting to 
ask for a brief leave of absence from my diplomatic duties."

 "I'm afraid that's impossible," Mon Mothma said with a slight frown. "There's far too 
much work to be done."

 "We're not talking about a vacation here," Han told her, trying to remember his 
diplomatic manners. "Leia needs more time to concentrate on her Jedi training."

 Mon Mothma pursed her lips, throwing glances at Ackbar and Fey'lya. "I'm sorry," she 
said, shaking her head. "I, of all people, recognize the need to add new Jedi to our ranks. 
But for now there are simply too many urgent demands on our time." She looked at 
Fey'lya again¢almost, Han thought sourly, as if seeking his permission. "In another 
year¢possibly sooner," she added, glancing at Leia's stomach, "we'll have enough 
experienced diplomats for you to devote the bulk of your time to your studies. But right 
now I'm afraid we need you here."

 For a long, awkward moment the room was silent. Ackbar spoke first. "If you'll excuse 
me, I'll go and have that escort force prepared."

 "Of course," Mon Mothma nodded. "Unless there's something more, we stand 
adjourned."

 And that was that. Jaw clenched tightly, Han began collecting his data cards together. 
"You all right?" Leia asked quietly from beside him.

 "You know, it was a lot easier back when we were just taking on the Empire," he 
growled. He threw a glare across the table at Fey'lya. "At leastthen we knew who our 
enemies were."

 Leia squeezed his arm. "Come on," she said. "Let's go see if they've gotten Threepio 
cleaned up yet."

  

 Chapter 9

 The tactical officer stepped up to theChimera 's bridge command station, bringing his 
heels smartly together. "All units signal ready, Admiral," he reported.

 "Excellent," Thrawn said, his voice glacially calm. "Prepare for lightspeed."

 Pellaeon threw a glance at the Grand Admiral, then returned his attention to the bank of 
tactical and status readouts facing him. To the readouts, and to the blackness outside that 
seemed to have swallowed up the rest of Pellaeon's five-ship task force. 
Three-thousandths of a light-year away, the Bpfassh system's sun was a mere pinprick, 
indistinguishable from the other stars blazing all around them. Conventional military 
wisdom frowned on this business of picking a spot just outside the target system as a 
jumping-off point¢it was considered dangerously easy for one or more ships to get lost on 
the way to such a rendezvous, and it was difficult to make an accurate hyperspace jump 
over so short a distance. He and Thrawn, in fact, had had a long and barely civilized 
argument over the idea the first time the Grand Admiral had included it in one of his 
attack plans. Now, after nearly a year of practice, the procedure had become almost 
routine.

 Perhaps, Pellaeon thought, theChimera 's crew wasn't as inexperienced as their 
ignorance of proper military protocol sometimes made them seem.

 "Captain? Is my flagship ready?"

 Pellaeon brought his mind back to the business at hand. All ship defenses showed ready; 
the TIE fighters in their bays were manned and poised. "TheChimaera is fully at your 
command, Admiral," he said, the formal question and response a ghostly remembrance of 
the days when proper military protocol was the order of the day throughout the galaxy.

 "Excellent," Thrawn said. He swiveled in his chair to face the figure seated near the rear 
of the bridge. "Master C'baoth," he nodded. "Are my other two task forces ready?"

 "They are," C'baoth said gravely. "They await merely my command."

 Pellaeon winced and threw another glance at Thrawn. But the Grand Admiral had 
apparently decided to let the comment pass. "Then command them," he told C'baoth, 
reaching up to stroke the ysalamir draped across the framework fastened to his chair. 
"Captain: begin the count."

 "Yes, sir." Pellaeon reached to his board, touched the timer switch. Scattered around 
them, the other ships would be locking onto that signal, all of them counting down 
together...

 The timer went to zero, and with a flare of starlines through the forward ports, 
theChimaera jumped.

 Ahead, the starlines faded into the mottling of hyperspace. "Speed, Point Three," the 
helmsman in the crew pit below called out, confirming the readout on the displays.

 "Acknowledged," Pellaeon said, flexing his fingers once and settling his mind into 
combat mode as he watched the timer now counting up from zero. Seventy seconds; 
seventy-four, seventy-five, seventy-six¢

 The starlines flared again through the mottled sky, and shrank back into stars, and 
theChimaera had arrived.

 "All fighters: launch," Pellaeon called, throwing a quick look at the tactical holo floating 
over his display bank. They had come out of hyperspace exactly as planned, within easy 
striking range of the double planet of Bpfassh and its complicated system of moons. 
"Response?" he called to the tactical officer.

 "Defending fighters launching from the third moon," the other reported. "Nothing larger 
visible as yet."

 "Get a location on that fighter base," Thrawn ordered, "and detail theInexorable to move 
in and destroy it."

 "Yes, sir."

 Pellaeon could see the fighters now, coming at them like a swarm of angry insects. Off 
on theChimera 's starboard flank, the Star DestroyerInexorable was moving toward their 
base, its TIE fighter wedge sweeping ahead of it to engage the defenders. "Change course 
to the farther of the twin planets," he ordered the helmsman. "TIE fighters to set up an 
advance screen. TheJudicator will take the other planet." He looked at Thrawn. "Any 
special orders, Admiral?"

 Thrawn was gazing at a mid-distance scan of the twin planets. "Stay with the program 
for now, Captain," he said. "Our preliminary data appear to have been adequate; you may 
choose targets at will. Remind your gunners once again that the plan is to hurt and 
frighten, not obliterate."

 "Relay that," Pellaeon nodded toward the communications station. "Have TIE fighters 
so reminded, as well."

 Out of the corner of his eye, he saw Thrawn turn. "Master C'baoth?" he said. "What's the 
status of the attacks in the other two systems?"

 "They proceed."

 Frowning, Pellaeon swiveled around. It had been C'baoth's voice, but so throaty and 
strained as to be nearly unrecognizable.

 As was, indeed, his appearance.

 For a long moment Pellaeon stared at him, a cold feeling in the pit of his stomach. 
C'baoth sat with unnatural stiffness, his eyes closed but visibly and rapidly moving 
behind the lids. His hands gripped the arms of his chair, and his lips were pressed so 
tightly together that the veins and cords in his neck stood out. "Are you all right, Master 
C'baoth?" he asked.

 "Save your concern, Captain," Thrawn told him coldly. "He's doing what he enjoys 
most: controlling people."

 C'baoth made a sound somewhere between a snort and a derisive chuckle. "I told you 
once, Grand Admiral Thrawn, that this is not true power."

 "So you've said," Thrawn said, his tone neutral. "Can you tell what sort of resistance 
they're facing?"

 C'baoth's frowning face frowned harder. "Not precisely. But neither force is in danger. 
That much I can feel in their minds."

 "Good. Then have theNemesis break off from the rest of its group and report back to the 
rendezvous to await us."

 Pellaeon frowned at the Grand Admiral. "Sir¢?"

 Thrawn turned to him, a warning gleam in his glowing eyes. "Attend to your duties, 
Captain," he said.

 ¢and with a sudden flash of insight, Pellaeon realized that this multiedged attack on 
New Republic territory was more than simply part of the setup for the Sluis Van raid. It 
was, in addition, a test. A test of C'baoth's abilities, yes; but also a test of his willingness 
to accept orders. "Yes, Admiral," Pellaeon murmured, and turned back to his displays.

 TheChimaera was in range now, and tiny sparks started to appear on the tactical holo as 
the ship's huge turbolaser batteries began firing. Communications stations flared and 
went black; planetside industrial targets flared, went dark, then flared again as secondary 
fires were ignited. A pair of oldCarrack -class light cruisers swept in from starboard, 
theChimera 's TIE fighter screen breaking formation to engage them. Off in the distance, 
theStormhawk 's batteries were blazing against an orbiting defense platform; and even as 
Pellaeon watched, the station flared into vapor. The battle seemed to be going well.

 Remarkably well, in fact...

 An unpleasant feeling began to stir in the pit of Pellaeon's stomach as he checked his 
board's real-time status readout. Thus far the Imperial forces had lost only three TIE 
fighters and sustained superficial damage to the Star Destroyers, compared to eight of the 
enemy's line ships and eighteen of its fighters gone. Granted, the Imperials vastly 
outgunned the defenders. But still...

 Slowly, reluctantly, Pellaeon reached to his board. A few weeks back he'd made up a 
statistical composite of theChimera 's battle profiles for the past year. He called it up, 
superimposed it over the current analysis.

 There was no mistake. In every single category and subcategory of speed, coordination, 
efficiency, and accuracy, theChimaera and its crew were running no less than 40 percent 
more effective than usual.

 He turned to look at C'baoth's strained face, an icy shiver running up his back. He'd 
never really bought into Thrawn's theory as to how and why the Fleet had lost the Battle 
of Endor. Certainly he'd neverwanted to believe it. But now, suddenly, the issue was no 
longer open to argument.

 And with the bulk of his attention and power on the task of mentally communicating 
with two other task forces nearly four light-years away, C'baoth still had enough left to 
do all this.

 Pellaeon had wondered, with a certain private contempt, just what had given the old 
man the right to add the wordMaster to his title. Now, he knew.

 "Getting another set of transmissions," the communications officer reported. "A new 
group of midrange planetary cruisers launching."

 "Have theStormhawk move to intercept," Thrawn ordered.

 "Yes, sir. We've now also pinpointed the location of their distress transmissions, 
Admiral."

 Shaking away his musings, Pellaeon glanced across the holo. The newly flashing circle 
was on the farthest of the system's moons. "Order Squadron Four to move in and destroy 
it," he ordered.

 "Belay that," Thrawn said. "We'll be long gone before any reinforcements can arrive. 
We might as well let the Rebellion waste its resources rushing useless forces to the 
rescue. In fact¢" the Grand Admiral consulted his watch "¢I believe it's time for us to 
take our leave. Order fighters back to their ships; all ships to lightspeed as soon as their 
fighters are aboard."

 Pellaeon tapped keys at his station, giving theChimera 's status a quick prelightspeed 
check. Another bit of conventional military wisdom was that Star Destroyers should play 
the role of mobile siege stations in this kind of full-planet engagement; that to employ 
them in hit-and-fade operations was both wasteful and potentially dangerous.

 But then, proponents of such theories had obviously never watched someone like Grand 
Admiral Thrawn in action.

 "Order the other two forces to break off their attacks, as well," Thrawn told C'baoth. "I 
presume you are in close enough contact to do that?"

 "You question me too much, Grand Admiral Thrawn," C'baoth said, his voice even 
huskier than it had been earlier. "Far too much."

 "I question all that is not yet familiar to me," Thrawn countered, swiveling back around 
again. "Call them back to the rendezvous point."

 "As you command," the other hissed.

 Pellaeon glanced back at C'baoth. Testing the other's abilities under combat conditions 
was all good and proper. But there was such a thing as pushing too far.

 "He must learn who's in command here," Thrawn said quietly, as if reading Pellaeon's 
thoughts.

 "Yes, sir," Pellaeon nodded, forcing his voice to remain steady. Thrawn had proved time 
and again that he knew what he was doing. Still, Pellaeon couldn't help but wonder 
uneasily if the Grand Admiral recognized the extent of the power he'd awakened from its 
sleep on Wayland.

 Thrawn nodded. "Good. Have there been any further leads on those mole miners I asked 
for?"

 "Ah¢no, sir." A year ago, too, he would have found a strange unreality in conversing 
about less than urgent matters while in the middle of a combat situation. "At least not in 
anything like the numbers you want. I think the Athega system's still our best bet. Or it 
will be if we can find a way around the problems of the sunlight intensity there."

 "The problems will be minimal," Thrawn said with easy confidence. "If the jump is 
done with sufficient accuracy, thejudicator will be in direct sunlight for only a few 
minutes each way. Its hull can certainly handle that much. We'll simply need to take a 
