 "That probably depends on whether the ship's about to blow up," Leia countered. "What 
did youdo?"

 "Cut through the coolant lines to the main drive," he told her, retrieving his blaster and 
handing back her lightsaber. "That's all their pressurized korfaise gas floating away."

 "I thought coolant gases were dangerous to breathe," Leia said, looking warily at the 
billowing cloud.

 "They are," Han agreed. "But korfaise is lighter than air, so we won't have any trouble 
down here.Inside the ship is another matter. I hope."

 Abruptly, Leia became aware of the silence around them. "They've stopped shooting," 
she said.

 Han listened. "You're right. Not just the ones inside the ship, either."

 "I wonder what they're up to," Leia murmured, tightening her grip on the lightsaber.

 A second later she got her answer. A violent thunderclap came from above them, 
flattening her to the ground with the shock wave. For a horrifying second she thought the 
aliens had set the ship to self-destruct; but the sound faded away, and the ramp beside her 
was still intact. "What wasthat ?"

 "That, sweetheart," Han said, pulling himself to his feet, "was the sound of an escape 
pod being jettisoned." He eased cautiously away from the relative protection of the ramp, 
scanning the sky. "Probably modified for atmospheric maneuvering. Never realized 
before how loud those things were."

 "They usually take off in vacuum," Leia reminded him, standing up herself. "So. Now 
what?"

 "Now¢" Han pointed "¢we collect our escort and get out of here."

 "Our escort?" Leia frowned. "What esc¢?"

 Her question was cut off by the roar of engines as three X-wings shot overhead, wings 
in attack position and clearly primed for trouble. She looked up at the white tower of 
korfaise gas... and suddenly understood. "You did that deliberately, didn't you?"

 "Well, sure," Han said, looking innocent. "Why just disable a ship when you can disable 
itand send up a distress signal at the same time?" He gazed up at the cloud. "You know," 
he said thoughtfully, "sometimes I still amaze myself."

  

 "I can assure you, Captain Solo," Admiral Ackbar's gravelly voice came over theFalcon 
's speaker, "that we are doing everything in our power to find out how this happened."

 "That's what you said four days ago," Han reminded him, trying hard to be civil. It 
wasn't easy. He'd long since gotten used to being shot at himself, but having Leia under 
the hammer with him was something else entirely. "Come on¢there can't be allthat many 
people who knew we were coming to Bpfassh."

 "You might be surprised," Ackbar said. "Between the Council members, their staffs, the 
prep crews at the spaceport, and various security and support personnel, there may be up 
to two hundred people who had direct access to your itinerary. And that doesn't count 
friends and colleagues any of those two hundred might have mentioned it to. Tracking 
through all of them is going to take time."

 Han grimaced. "That's great. May I ask what you suggest we do in the meantime?"

 "You have your escort."

 "We had them four days ago, too," Han countered. "It didn't do us a lot of good. 
Commander Antilles and Rogue Squadron are fine in a space battle, but this kind of stuff 
isn't exactly their area of expertise. We'd do better with Lieutenant Page and some of his 
commandos."

 "Unfortunately, they're all out on assignment," Ackbar said. "Under the circumstances, 
perhaps it would be best if you simply brought Councilor Organa Solo back here where 
she can be properly protected."

 "I'd love to," Han said. "The question is whether she'll be any safer on Coruscant than 
she is here."

 There was a long moment of silence, and Han could imagine Ackbar's huge eyes 
swiveling in their sockets. "I'm not sure I appreciate the tone of that question, Captain."

 "I don't much like it either, Admiral," Han told him. "But face it: if the Imperials are 
getting informationout of the Palace, they might just as easily be able to get their agentsin 
."

 "I think that highly unlikely," Ackbar said, and there was no missing the frostiness in his 
tone. "The security arrangements I've set up on Coruscant are quite capable of handling 
anything the Imperials might try."

 "I'm sure they are, Admiral," Han sighed. "I only meant¢"

 "We'll let you know when we have further information, Captain," Ackbar said. "Until 
then, do whatever you feel is necessary. Coruscant out."

 The faint hum of the carrier cut off. "Right," Han muttered under his breath. "Bpfassh 
out, too."

 For a minute he just sat there in theFalcon 's cockpit, thinking evil thoughts about 
politics in general and Ackbar in particular. In front of him the displays that normally 
monitored ship's status were showing views of the landing field around them, with 
special emphasis on the areas just outside the hatch. The underside swivel blaster was 
extended and ready, the deflector shields set for hair-trigger activation, despite the fact 
that the things weren't all that effective inside an atmosphere.

 Han shook his head, a mixture of frustration and disgust in his mouth.Who'd ever have 
thought, he marveled to himself,that the day would come when I was actually paranoid?

 From the rear of the cockpit came the sound of a soft footstep. Han turned, hand 
automatically dropping to his blaster¢

 "It's just me," Leia assured him, coming forward and glancing at the displays. She 
looked tired. "You finished talking with Ackbar already?"

 "It wasn't much of a conversation," Han told her sourly. "I asked what they were doing 
to find out how our pals with the blasters knew we were coming here, he assured me they 
were doing everything possible to find out, I managed to step on his toes, and he signed 
off in a huff. Pretty much like usual with Ackbar these days."

 Leia gave him a wry smile. "Youdo have a way with people, don't you?"

 "This one's not my fault," Han objected. "All I did was suggest that his security 
peoplemight not be up to keeping these guys out of the Imperial Palace.He's the one who 
overreacted."

 "I know," Leia nodded, dropping wearily into the copilot's seat. "For all his military 
genius, Ackbar just doesn't have the polish to be a good politician. And with Fey'lya 
nipping at his heels..." She shrugged uncomfortably. "He just gets more and more 
overprotective of his territory."

 "Yeah, well, if he's trying to keep Fey'lya away from the military, he's got the wrong 
end of the blaster," Han growled. "Half of them are already convinced that Fey'lya's the 
guy to listen to."

 "Unfortunately, he often is," Leia conceded. "Charisma and ambition. Dangerous 
combination."

 Han frowned. There had been something in her voice just then... "What do you mean, 
dangerous?"

 "Nothing," she said, a guilty look flicking across her face. "Sorry¢talking out of turn."

 "Leia, if you know something¢"

 "I don'tknow anything," she said, in a tone that warned him to drop it. "It's just a feeling 
I have. A sense that Fey'lya has his eye on more than just Ackbar's job as supreme 
commander. But it's just a feeling."

 Like the feeling she had that the Empire was up to something big? "Okay," he said 
soothingly. "I understand. So. You all done here?"

 "As done as I can be," she said, the tiredness back in her voice. "The rebuilding's going 
to take some time, but the organization for that will have to be handled from Coruscant." 
She leaned back in her seat and closed her eyes. "Convoys of replacement equipment, 
consultants and maybe extra workers¢you know the sort of thing."

 "Yeah," Han said. "And I suppose you're anxious to get right back and start the ball 
rolling."

 She opened her eyes and gave him a curious look. "You sound like you're not."

 Han gave the outside displays a thoughtful scan. "Well, it's what everyone's going to 
expect you to do," he pointed out. "So maybe we ought to do something else."

 "Such as?"

 "I don't know. Find somewhere no one would think to look for you, I guess."

 "And then...?" she asked, her voice ominous.

 Unconsciously, Han braced himself. "And then hole up there for a while."

 "You know I can't do that," she said, her tone just about what he'd expected. "I have 
commitments back on Coruscant."

 "You've got commitments to yourself, too," he countered. "Not to mention to the twins."

 She glared at him. "That's not fair."

 "Isn't it?"

 She turned away from him, an unreadable expression on her face. "I can't be out of 
touch, Han," she said quietly. "I just can't. There's too much happening back there for me 
to bury myself away."

 Han gritted his teeth. They seemed to be running over this same territory a lot lately. 
"Well, if all you need right now is to keep in touch, how about if we go some place that 
has a diplomatic station? You'd at least be able to get official Coruscant news there."

 "And how do we make sure the local ambassador doesn't give us away?" She shook her 
head. "I can't believe I'm talking like this," she muttered. "It's like we're back being the 
Rebellion again, not the legitimate government."

 "Who says the ambassador has to know?" Han asked. "We've got a diplomatic receiver 
on theFalcon ¢we can tap into the transmission on our own."

 "Only if we can get hold of the station's encrypt scheme," she reminded him."And then 
plug it into our receiver. That may not be possible."

 "We can find a way," Han insisted. "At least it would buy Ackbar some time to track 
down the leak."

 "True." Leia considered, slowly shook her head. "I don't know. The New Republic's 
encrypt codes are nearly impossible to break."

 Han snorted. "I hate to disillusion you, sweetheart, but there are slicers running around 
loose who eat government encrypt codes for breakfast. All we have to do is find one of 
them."

 "And pay him enormous sums of money?" Leia said dryly.

 "Something like that," Han agreed, thinking hard. "On the other hand, even slicers 
occasionally owe other people favors."

 "Oh?" Leia threw him a sideways look. "I don't suppose you'd know any of them."

 "As a matter of fact, I do." Han pursed his lips. "Trouble is, if the Imperials have done 
their homework, they probably know all about it and have someone watching him."

 "Meaning...?"

 "Meaning we're going to have to find someone who's got his own list of slicer contacts." 
He reached over to the console and tapped theFalcon 's comm switch. "Antilles, this is 
Solo. You copy?"

 "Right here, General," Wedge's voice came back promptly.

 "We're leaving Bpfassh, Wedge," Han told him. "That's not official yet¢you're in charge 
of telling the rest of the delegation about it once we're off the ground."

 "I understand," Wedge said. "You want me to assign you an escort, or would you rather 
slip out quietly? I've got a couple of people I'd trust all the way to the end of the galaxy."

 Han sent Leia a lopsided smile. Wedge understood, all right. "Thanks, but we wouldn't 
want the rest of the delegation to feel unprotected."

 "Whatever you want. I can handle anything that needs doing at this end. See you back at 
Coruscant."

 "Right." Han cut off the comm. "Eventually," he added under his breath as he keyed for 
intercom. "Chewie? We ready to fly?"

 The Wookiee growled an affirmative. "Okay. Make sure everything's bolted down and 
then come on up. Better bring Threepio, too¢we might have to talk to Bpfasshi Control 
on the way out."

 "Do I get to know where we're going?" Leia asked as he started the prelaunch sequence.

 "I already told you," Han said. "We need to find someone we can trust who has his own 
list of illegals."

 A suspicious glint came into her eye. "You don't mean... Lando?"

 "Who else?" Han said innocently. "Upstanding citizen, former war hero, honest 
businessman. Ofcourse he'll have slicer contacts."

 Leia rolled her eyes skyward. "Why," she murmured, "do I suddenly have a bad feeling 
about this?"

  

 Chapter 11

 "Hang on, Artoo," Luke called as the first gusts of atmospheric turbulence began to 
bounce the X-wing around. "We're coming in. Scanners all working okay?"

 There was an affirmative twitter from the rear, the translation appearing across his 
computer scope. "Good," Luke said, and turned his attention back to the cloud-shrouded 
planet rushing up to meet them. It was odd, he thought, how it had only been on that first 
trip in to Dagobah that the sensors had so totally failed on approach.

 Or perhaps not so odd. Perhaps that had been Yoda, deliberately suppressing his 
instruments so as to be able to guide him unsuspectingly to the proper landing site.

 And now Yoda was gone...

 Firmly, Luke put the thought out of his mind. Mourning the loss of a friend and teacher 
was both fitting and honorable, but to dwell unnecessarily on that loss was to give the 
past too much power over the present.

 The X-wing dropped into the lower atmosphere, and within seconds was completely 
enveloped by thick white clouds. Luke watched the instruments, taking the approach slow 
and easy. The last time he'd come here, just before the Battle of Endor, he'd made the 
landing without incident; but just the same, he had no intention of pushing his luck. The 
landing sensors had Yoda's old homestead pinpointed now. "Artoo?" he called. "Find me 
a good level spot to set down, will you?"

 In response, a red rectangle appeared on the forward scope, a ways east of the house but 
within walking distance of it. "Thanks," Luke told the droid, and keyed in the landing 
cycle. A moment later, with one last mad flurry of displaced tree branches, they were 
down.

 Slipping off his helmet, Luke popped the canopy. The rich odors of the Dagobah swamp 
flooded in on him, a strange combination of sweet and decay that sent a hundred 
memories flashing through his mind. That slow twitch of Yoda's ears¢the strange but 
tasty stew he'd often made¢the way that wispy hair of his had tickled Luke's ears 
whenever he rode on Luke's back during training. The training itself: the long hours, the 
physical and mental fatigue, the gradually increasing sense of and confidence in the 
Force, the cave and its dark side images¢

 The cave?

 Abruptly, Luke stood up in the cockpit, hand going reflexively to his lightsaber as he 
peered through the haze. Surely he hadn't brought his X-wing down by the cave.

 He had. There, no more than fifty meters away, was the tree that grew from just above 
that evil place, its huge blackened shape jutting upward through the surrounding trees. 
Beneath and between its tangled roots, just visible through the mists and shorter 
vegetation, he could see the dark entrance to the cave itself.

 "Wonderful," he muttered. "Just wonderful." From behind him came an interrogative set 
of beeps. "Never mind, Artoo," he called over his shoulder, dropping his helmet back 
onto the seat. "It's all right. Why don't you stay here, and I'll¢"

 The X-wing rocked, just a bit, and he looked back to find Artoo already out of his 
socket and working his way gingerly forward. "Or if you'd rather, you can come along," 
he added wryly.

 Artoo beeped again¢not a cheerful beep, exactly, but one that definitely sounded 
relieved. The little droid hated being left alone. "Hang on," Luke directed him. "I'll get 
down and give you a hand."

 He jumped down. The ground felt a little squishy beneath his feet, but it was easily firm 
enough to support the X-wing's weight. Satisfied, he reached out with the Force to lift 
Artoo from his perch and lower the droid to the ground beside him. "There you go," he 
said.

 From off in the distance came the long, trilling wail of one of Dagobah's birds. Luke 
listened as it ran down the scale, eyes searching the swamp around him and wondering 
why exactly he'd come here. Back on Coruscant it had seemed important¢even vital¢that 
he do so. But now that he was actually standing here it all seemed hazy. Hazy, and more 
than a little silly.

 Beside him, Artoo beeped questioningly. With an effort, Luke shook off the 
uncertainties. "I thought Yoda might have left something behind that we could use," he 
told the droid, choosing the most easily verbalized of his reasons. "The house should be¢" 
he glanced around to get his bearings "¢that way. Let's go."

 The distance wasn't great, but the trip took longer than Luke had anticipated. Partly it 
was the general terrain and vegetation¢he'd forgotten just how difficult it was to get from 
one place to another through the Dagobah swamps. But there was something else, too: a 
low-level but persistent pressure at the back of his mind that seemed to press inward, 
clouding his ability to think.

 But at last they arrived... to find the house effectively gone.

 For a long minute Luke just stood there, gazing at the mass of vegetation occupying the 
spot where the house had been, a freshly renewed sense of loss struggling against the 
embarrassing realization that he'd been a fool. Growing up in the deserts of Tatooine, 
where an abandoned structure could last for half a century or more, it had somehow never 
even occurred to him to consider what would happen to that same structure after five 
years in a swamp.

 Beside him, Artoo twittered a question. "I thought Yoda might have left some tapes or 
books behind," Luke explained. "Something that would tell me more about the methods 
of Jedi training. Not much left, though, is there?"

 In response, Artoo extended his little sensor plate. "Never mind," Luke told him, 
starting forward. "As long as we're here, I guess we might as well take a look."

 It took only a few minutes to cut a path through the bushes and vines with his lightsaber 
and to reach what was left of the house's outer walls. For the most part they were rubble, 
reaching only to his waist at their highest, and covered with a crisscrossing of tiny vines. 
Inside was more vegetation, pushing up against, and in some places through, the old 
stone hearth. Half buried in the mud were Yoda's old iron pots, covered with a 
strange-looking moss.

 Behind him, Artoo gave a quiet whistle. "No, I don't think we're going to find anything 
useful," Luke agreed, squatting down to pull one of the pots out of the ground. A small 
lizard darted out as he did so, and disappeared into the reedy grass. "Artoo, see if you can 
find anything electronic around here, will you? I never saw him use anything like that, 
but..." He shrugged.

 The droid obediently raised his sensor plate again. Luke watched as it tracked back and 
forth... and suddenly stopped. "Find something?" Luke asked.

 Artoo twittered excitedly, his dome swiveling to look back the way they'd come. "Back 
that way?" Luke frowned. He looked down at the debris around him. "Not here?"

 Artoo beeped again and turned around, rolling with some difficulty across the uneven 
surface. Pausing, he swiveled his dome back toward Luke and made a series of sounds 
that could only have been a question. "Okay, I'm coming," Luke sighed, forcing back the 
odd sense of dread that had suddenly seized him. "Lead the way."

  

 The sunlight filtering through the leafy canopy overhead had become noticeably dimmer 
by the time they came within sight of the X-wing. "Now where?" Luke asked Artoo. "I 
hope you're not going to tell me that all you were picking up was our own ship."

 Artoo swiveled his dome back around, trilling a decidedly indignant denial. His sensor 
plate turned slightly¢

 To point directly at the cave.

 Luke swallowed hard. "You're sure?"

 The droid trilled again. "You're sure," Luke said.

 For a minute he just looked across through the mists at the cave, indecision swirling 
through his mind. There was no genuine need for him to go in there¢of that much he was 
certain. Whatever it was Artoo had detected, it would not be anything Yoda had left 
behind. Not in there.

 But then what was it? Leia had referred to a Bpfasshi Dark Jedi who'd come here. Could 
it be something of his?

 Luke gritted his teeth. "Stay here, Artoo," he instructed the droid as he started across to 
the cave. "I'll be back as soon as I can."

 Fear and anger, Yoda had often warned him, were the slaves of the dark side. Vaguely, 
Luke wondered which side curiosity served.

 Up close, the tree straddling the cave looked as evil as he remembered it: twisted, dark, 
and vaguely brooding, as if it was itself alive with the dark side of the Force. Perhaps it 
was. Luke couldn't tell for sure, not with the overwhelming emanations of the cave 
flooding his senses. It was, clearly, the source of the low-level pressure he'd felt ever 
since his arrival on Dagobah, and for a moment he wondered why the effect had never 
been this strong before.

 Perhaps because Yoda had always been here before, his presence shielding Luke from 
the true strength of the cave's power. But now Yoda was gone... and Luke was facing the 
cave alone.

 He took a deep breath.I am a Jedi, he reminded himself firmly. Slipping his comlink 
from his belt, he thumbed it on. "Artoo? You copy?"

 The comlink trilled back. "Okay. I'm starting in. Give me a signal when I get close to 
whatever it is you're picking up."

 He got an affirmative-sounding beep. Returning the comlink to his belt, he drew his 
lightsaber. Taking another deep breath, he ducked under the gnarled tree roots and 
stepped into the cave.

 This, too, was as bad as he remembered it. Dark, dank, alive with skittering insects and 
slimy plants, it was generally as unpleasant a place as Luke had ever been in. The footing 
seemed more treacherous than it had been before, and twice in the first dozen steps he 
nearly fell on his face as the ground gave way beneath his weight; not badly, but enough 
to throw him off balance. Through the mists ahead a well-remembered spot loomed, and 
he found himself gripping his lightsaber all the more tightly as he neared it. On this spot, 
once, he'd fought a nightmare battle with a shadowy, unreal Darth Vader...

 He reached the place and stopped, fighting back the fear and memories. But this time, to 
his relief, nothing happened. No hissing breath came from the shadows; no Dark Lord 
glided forward to confront him. Nothing.

 Luke licked his lips and pulled the comlink off his belt. No; of course there would be 
nothing. He had already faced that crisis¢had faced it and conquered it. With Vader 
redeemed and gone, the cave had nothing further to threaten him with except nameless 
and unreal fears, and those only if he allowed them to have power over him. He should 
have realized that from the start. "Artoo?" he called. "You still there?"

 The little droid buzzed in reply. "All right," Luke said, starting forward again. "How far 
do I have to¢?"

 And right in the middle of his sentence¢practically in the middle of a step¢the haze of 
the cave abruptly coalesced around him into a flickering, surreal vision...

 He was on a small, open-air ground vehicle, hovering low over some sort of pit. The 
ground itself was indistinct, but he could feel a terrible heat rising all around him from it. 
Something poked hard in his back, urging him forward onto a narrow board protruding 
horizontally from the vehicle's side¢

 Luke caught his breath, the scene suddenly coming clear. He was back on Jabba the 
Hutt's skiff, being prepared for his execution in the Great Pit of Carkoon¢

 Ahead, he could see the shape of Jabba's Sail Barge now, drifting a bit closer as the 
courtiers jostled one another for a better view of the coming spectacle. Many of the 
barge's details were indistinct through the dream mists, but he could see clearly the 
small, dome-topped figure of Artoo at the top of the ship. Awaiting Luke's signal...

 "I'm not going to play this game," Luke called out toward the vision. "I'm not. I've faced 
this crisis, too, and I've defeated it."

 But his words seemed dead even in his own ears... and even as he spoke them, he could 
feel the jab of the guard's spear in his back, and could feel himself drop off the end of the 
plank. In midair he twisted around, grabbing the end of the board and flipping high over 
the guards' heads¢

 He landed and turned back toward the Sail Barge, hand extended for the lightsaber 
Artoo had just sent arcing toward him.

 It never reached him. Even as he stood there waiting for it, the weapon changed 
direction, curving back toward the other end of the Sail Barge. Frantically, Luke reached 
out for it with the Force; but to no avail. The lightsaber continued its flight¢

 And came to rest in the hand of a slender woman standing alone at the top of the barge.

 Luke stared at her, a feeling of horror surging through him. In the mists, with the sun 
behind her, he could see no details of her face... but the lightsaber she now held aloft like 
a prize told him all he needed to know. She had the power of the Force... and had just 
condemned him and his friends to death.

 And as the spears pushed him again onto the plank he heard, clearly through the dream 
mists, her mocking laughter...

 "No!" Luke shouted; and as suddenly as it had appeared, the vision vanished. He was 
back in the cave on Dagobah, his forehead and tunic soaked with sweat, a frantic 
electronic beeping coming from the comlink in his hand.

 He took a shuddering breath, squeezing his lightsaber hard to reassure himself that he 
did indeed still have it. "It's¢" He worked moisture into a dry throat and tried again. "It's 
okay, Artoo," he reassured the droid. "I'm all right. Uh..." He paused, fighting through the 
disorientation to try to remember what he was doing here. "Are you still picking up that 
electronic signal?"

 Artoo beeped affirmatively. "Is it still ahead of me?" Another affirmative beep. "Okay," 
Luke said. Shifting the lightsaber in his hand, he wiped more of the sweat from his 
forehead and started cautiously forward, trying to watch all directions at once.

 But the cave had apparently done its worst. No more visions rose to challenge his way 
as he continued deeper in... and at last, Artoo signaled that he was there.

 The device, once he'd finally pried it out of the mud and moss, was a distinct 
disappointment: a small, somewhat flattened cylinder a little longer than his hand, with 
five triangular, rust-encrusted keys on one side and some flowing alien script engraved on 
the other. "This is it?" Luke asked, not sure he liked the idea of having come all the way 
in here just for something so totally nondescript. "There's nothing else?"

 Artoo beeped affirmatively, and gave a whistle that could only be a question. "I don't 
know what it is," Luke told the droid. "Maybe you'll recognize it. Hang on; I'm coming 
out."

 The return trip was unpleasant but also uneventful, and a short time later he emerged 
from under the tree roots with a sigh of relief into the relatively fresh air of the swamp.

 It had grown dark while he'd been inside, he noted to his mild surprise; that twisted 
vision of the past must have lasted longer than it had seemed. Artoo had the X-wing's 
landing lights on; the beams were visible as hazy cones in the air. Wading his way 
through the ground vegetation, Luke headed toward the X-wing.

 Artoo was waiting for him, beeping quietly to himself. The beeping became a relieved 
whistle as Luke came into the light, the little droid rocking back and forth like a nervous 
child. "Relax, Artoo, I'm all right," Luke assured him, squatting down and pulling the 
flattened cylinder out of his side pocket. "What do you think?"

 The droid chirped thoughtfully, his dome swiveling around to examine the object from a 
couple of different directions. Then, abruptly, the chirping exploded into an excited 
electronic jabbering. "What?" Luke asked, trying to read the flurry of sounds and 
wondering wryly why Threepio was never around when you needed him. "Slow down, 
Artoo. I can't¢never mind," he interrupted himself, getting to his feet and glancing around 
in the gathering darkness. "I don't think there's any point in hanging around here 
anymore, anyway."

 He looked back at the cave, now almost swallowed up by the deepening gloom, and 
shivered. No, there was no reason to stay... and at least one very good reason to leave. So 
much, he thought glumly, for finding any kind of enlightenment here. He should have 
known better. "Come on," he told the droid. "Let's get you back in your socket. You can 
tell me all about it on the way home."

  

