
  

 Chapter 27

 The battered A-Class bulk freighter drifted off theChimera 's starboard side: a giant 
space-going box with a hyperdrive attached, its faded plating glistening dully in the glare 
of the Star Destroyer's floodlights. Sitting at his command station, Thrawn studied the 
sensor data and nodded. "It looks good, Captain," he said to Pellaeon. "Exactly the way it 
should. You may proceed with the test when ready."

 "It'll be a few more minutes yet, sir," Pellaeon told him, studying the readouts on his 
console. "The technicians are still having some problems getting the cloaking shield 
tuned."

 He held his breath, half afraid of a verbal explosion. The untested cloaking shield and 
the specially modified freighter it was mounted to had cost hideous amounts of 
money¢money the Empire really didn't have to spare. For the technology to now 
suddenly come up finicky, particularly with the whole of the Sluis Van operation hanging 
squarely in the balance...

 But the Grand Admiral merely nodded. "There's time," he said calmly. "What word 
from Myrkr?"

 "The last regular report came in two hours ago," Pellaeon told him. "Still negative."

 Thrawn nodded again. "And the latest count from Sluis Van?"

 "Uh..." Pellaeon checked the appropriate file. "A hundred twelve transient warships in 
all. Sixty-five being used as cargo carriers, the others on escort duty."

 "Sixty-five," Thrawn repeated with obvious satisfaction. "Excellent. It means we get to 
pick and choose."

 Pellaeon stirred uncomfortably. "Yes, sir."

 Thrawn turned away from his contemplation of the freighter to look at Pellaeon. "You 
have a concern, Captain?"

 Pellaeon nodded at the ship. "I don't like sending them into enemy territory without any 
communications."

 "We don't have much choice in the matter," Thrawn reminded him dryly. "That's how a 
cloaking shield works¢nothing gets out, nothing gets in." He cocked an eyebrow. 
"Assuming, of course, that it works at all," he added pointedly.

 "Yes, sir. But..."

 "But what, Captain?"

 Pellaeon braced himself and took the plunge. "It seems to me, Admiral, that this is the 
sort of operation we ought to use C'baoth on."

 Thrawn's gaze hardened, just a bit. "C'baoth?"

 "Yes, sir. He could give us communications with¢"

 "We don't need communications, Captain," Thrawn cut him off. "Careful timing will be 
adequate for our purposes."

 "I disagree, Admiral. Under normal circumstances, yes, careful timing would get them 
into position. But there's no way to anticipate how long it'll take to get clearance from 
Sluis Control."

 "On the contrary," Thrawn countered coolly. "I've studied the Sluissi very carefully. I 
can anticipate exactly how long it will take them to clear the freighter."

 Pellaeon gritted his teeth. "If the controllers were all Sluissi, perhaps. But with the 
Rebellion funneling so much of their own material through the Sluis Van system, they're 
bound to have some of their own people in Control, as well."

 "It's of no consequence," Thrawn told him. "The Sluissi will be in charge.Their timing 
will determine events."

 Pellaeon exhaled and conceded defeat. "Yes, sir," he muttered.

 Thrawn eyed him. "It's not a question of bravado, Captain. Or of proving that the 
Imperial Fleet can function without him. The simple fact of the matter is that we can't 
afford to use C'baoth too much or too often."

 "Because we'll start depending on him," Pellaeon growled. "As if we were all 
borg-implanted into a combat computer."

 Thrawn smiled. "That still bothers you, doesn't it? No matter. That's part of it, but only a 
very small part. What concerns me more is that we don't give Master C'baoth too much of 
a taste for this kind of power."

 Pellaeon frowned at him. "He said he doesn't want power."

 "Then he lies," Thrawn returned coldly. "All men want power. And the more they have, 
the more they want."

 Pellaeon thought about that. "But if he's a threat to us..." He broke off, suddenly aware 
of the other officers and men working all around them.

 The Grand Admiral had no such reticence. "Why not dispose of him?" he finished the 
question. "It's very simple. Because we'll soon have the ability to fill his taste for power 
to the fullest... and once we've done so, he'll be no more of a threat than any other tool."

 "Leia Organa Solo and her twins?"

 "Exactly," Thrawn nodded, his eyes glittering. "Once C'baoth has them in his hand, 
these little excursions with the Fleet will be no more to him than distracting interludes 
that take him away from hisreal work."

 Pellaeon found himself looking away from the intensity of that gaze. The theory seemed 
good enough; but in actual practice... "That assumes, of course, that the Noghri are ever 
able to connect with her."

 "They will." Thrawn was quietly confident. "She and her guardians will eventually run 
out of tricks. Certainly long before we run out of Noghri."

 In front of Pellaeon, the display cleared. "They're ready, sir," he said.

 Thrawn turned back to the freighter. "At your convenience, Captain."

 Pellaeon took a deep breath and tapped the comm switch. "Cloaking shield:activate."

 And outside the view window, the battered freighter¢

 Stayed exactly as it was.

 Thrawn gazed hard at the freighter. Looked at his command displays, back at the 
freighter... and then turned to Pellaeon, a satisfied smile on his face. "Excellent, Captain. 
Precisely what I wanted. I congratulate you and your technicians."

 "Thank you, sir," Pellaeon said, relaxing muscles he hadn't realized were tense. "Then I 
take it the light is green?"

 The Grand Admiral's smile remained unchanged, his face hardening around it. "The 
light is green, Captain," he said grimly. "Alert the task force; prepare to move to the 
rendezvous point.

 "The Sluis Van shipyards are ours."

  

 Wedge Antilles looked up from the data pad with disbelief. "You've got to be kidding," 
he told the dispatcher. "Escortduty?"

 The other gave him an innocent look. "What's the big deal?" he asked. "You guys are 
X-wings¢you do escort all the time."

 "We escortpeople ," Wedge retorted. "We don't watchdog cargo ships."

 The dispatcher's innocent look collapsed into thinly veiled disgust, and Wedge got the 
sudden impression that he'd gone through this same argument a lot lately. "Look, 
Commander, don't dump it on me," he growled back. "It's a standard Frigate 
escort¢what's the difference whether the Frigate's got people or a break-down reactor 
aboard?"

 Wedge looked back at the data pad. It was a matter of professional pride, that's what the 
difference was. "Sluis Van's a pretty long haul for X-wings," he said instead.

 "Yeah, well, the spec line says you'll be staying aboard the Frigate until you actually hit 
the system," the dispatcher said, reaching over his desk to tap the paging key on Wedge's 
data pad. "You'll just ride him in from there."

 Wedge scanned the rest of the spec line. They'd then have to sit there in the shipyards 
and wait for the rest of the convoy to assemble before finally taking the cargo on to 
Bpfassh. "We're going to be a long time away from Coruscant with this," he said.

 "I'd look on that as a plus if I were you, Commander," the dispatcher said, lowering his 
voice. "Something here's coming to a head. I think Councilor Fey'lya and his people are 
about to make their move."

 Wedge felt a chill run through him. "You don't mean... acoup? "

 The dispatcher jumped as if scalded. "No, of course not. What do you think Fey'lya 
is¢?"

 He broke off, his eyes going wary. "Oh, I got it. You're one of Ackbar's diehards, huh? 
Face it, Commander; Ackbar's lost whatever touch he ever had with the common fighting 
man of the Alliance. Fey'lya's the only one on the Council who really cares about our 
welfare." He gestured at the data pad. "Case in point. All this garbage came down from 
Ackbar's office."

 "Yeah, well, there's still an Empire out there," Wedge muttered, uncomfortably aware 
that the dispatcher's verbal attack on Ackbar had neatly shifted him to the other side of 
his own argument. He wondered if the other had done that on purpose... or whether he 
really was one of the growing number of Fey'lya supporters in the military.

 And come to think of it, a little vacation away from Coruscant might not be such a bad 
idea, after all. At least it would get him away from all this crazy political stuff. "When do 
we leave?"

 "Soon as you can get your people together and aboard," the dispatcher said. "They're 
already loading your fighters."

 "Right." Wedge turned away from the desk and headed down the corridor toward the 
ready rooms. Yes, a quiet little run back out to Sluis Van and Bpfassh would be just the 
thing right now. Give him some breathing space to try to sort out just what was 
happening to this New Republic he'd risked so much to help build.

 And if the Imperials took a poke at them along the way... well, at leastthat was a threat 
he could fight back against.

  

 Chapter 28

 It was just before noon when they began to notice the faint sounds wafting occasionally 
to them through the forest. It was another hour after that before they were close enough 
for Luke to finally identify them.

 Speeder bikes.

 "You're sure that's a military model?" Mara muttered as the whine/drone rose and fell 
twice more before fading again into the distance.

 "I'm sure," Luke told her grimly. "I nearly ran one of them into a tree on Endor."

 She didn't reply, and for a moment Luke wondered if the mention of Endor might not 
have been a good idea. But a glance at Mara's face relieved that fear. She was not 
brooding, but listening. "Sounds like they're off to the south, too," she said after a minute. 
"North... I don't hear anything from that direction."

 Luke listened. "Neither do I," he said. "I wonder... Artoo, can you make up an audio 
map for us?"

 There was an acknowledging beep. A moment later the droid's holo projector came on 
and a two-color map appeared, hovering a few centimeters over the matted leaves 
underfoot.

 "I was right," Mara said, pointing. "A few units directly ahead of us, the rest off to the 
south. Nothing at all north."

 "Which means we must have veered to the north," Luke said.

 Mara frowned at him. "How do you figure that?"

 "Well, they must know we'll make for Hyllyard City," he said. "They're bound to center 
their search on the direct approach."

 Mara smiled thinly. "Such wonderful Jedi naivete," she said. "I don't suppose you 
considered the fact that just because we can't hear them doesn't mean they aren't there."

 Luke frowned down at the holographic map. "Well, of course theycould have a force 
lying in wait there," he agreed. "But what would it gain them?"

 "Oh, come on, Skywalker¢it's the oldest tactical trick in the book. If the perimeter looks 
impossible to crack, the quarry goes to ground and waits for a better opportunity. You 
don't want him to do that, so you give him what looks like a possible way through." She 
squatted down, ran a finger through the "quiet" section on the map. "In this case, they get 
a bonus: if we swing north to avoid the obvious speeder bikes, it's instant proof that we've 
got something to hide from them."

 Luke grimaced. "Not that they really need any proof."

 Mara shrugged and straightened up again. "Some officers are more legal-minded than 
others. The question is, what do we do now?"

 Luke looked back down at the map. By Mara's reckoning, they were no more than four 
or five kilometers from the edge of the forest¢two hours, more or less. If the Imperials 
had this much organization already set up in front of them... "They're probably going to 
try to ring us," he said slowly. "Move units around to the north and south, and eventually 
behind us."

 "If they haven't done so already," Mara said. "No reason we would have heard 
them¢they don't know exactly how fast we're moving, so they'll have made it a big circle. 
Probably using a wide ring of Chariot assault vehicles or hoverscouts with a group of 
speeder bikes working around each focal point. It's the standard stormtrooper format for a 
web."

 Luke pursed his lips. But what the Imperialsdidn't know was that one of the quarry 
knew exactly what they were up to. "So how do we break out?" he asked.

 Mara hissed between her teeth. "We don't," she said flatly. "Not without a lot more 
equipment and resources than we've got."

 The faint whine/drone came again from somewhere ahead of them, rising and then 
fading as it passed by in the distance. "In that case," Luke said, "we might as well go 
straight up the middle. Call to them before they see us, maybe."

 Mara snorted. "Like we were casual tourists out here with nothing to hide?"

 "You have a better idea?"

 She glared at him. But it was a reflexive glare, without any real argument behind it. 
"Not really," she conceded at last. "I suppose you're also going to want to do that 
role-switch thing Karrde suggested."

 Luke shrugged. "We're not going to be able to blast our way through them," he 
reminded her. "And if you're right about that pincer movement, we're not going to sneak 
through them, either. All that's left is a bluff, and the better a bluff it is, the better chance 
we've got."

 Mara's lip twisted. "I suppose so." With only a slight hesitation, she dropped the power 
pack from her blaster and handed it and the forearm holster to him.

 Luke took them, hefted the blaster in his hand. "They may check to see if it's loaded," he 
pointed out mildly. "I would."

 "Look, Skywalker, if you think I'm going to give you a loaded weapon¢"

 "And if another vornskr finds us before the Imperials do," Luke cut her off quietly, 
"you'll never get it reloaded fast enough."

 "Maybe I don't care," she shot back.

 Luke nodded. "Maybe you don't."

 She glared at him again, but again, the glare lacked conviction. Teeth visibly grinding 
together, she slapped the power pack into his hand. "Thank you," Luke said, reloading the 
blaster and fastening it to his left forearm. "Now. Artoo?"

 The droid understood. One of the trapezoidal sections at the top of his upper dome, 
indistinguishable from all the other segments, slid open to reveal a long, deep storage 
compartment beneath it. Turning back to Mara, Luke held out his hand.

 She looked at the open hand, then at the storage compartment. "So that's how you did 
it," she commented sourly, unhooking his lightsaber and handing it over. "I always 
wondered how you smuggled that thing into Jabba's."

 Luke dropped the lightsaber in, and Artoo slid the door shut behind it. "I'll call for it if I 
need it," he told the droid.

 "Don't count on being very good with it," Mara warned. "The ysalamiri effect is 
supposed to extend several kilometers past the edge of the forest¢none of those little 
attack-anticipation tricks will work anywhere near Hyllyard City."

 "I understand," Luke nodded. "I guess we're ready to go, then."

 "Not quite," Mara said, eyeing him. "There's still that face of yours."

 Luke cocked an eyebrow. "I don't think Artoo's got anywhere to hidethat ."

 "Funny. I had something else in mind." Mara glanced around, then headed off toward a 
stand of odd-looking bushes a few meters away. Reaching it, she pulled the end of her 
tunic sleeve down to cover her hand and carefully picked a few of the leaves. "Pull up 
your sleeve and hold out your arm," she ordered as she returned with them.

 He did so, and she brushed his forearm lightly with the tip of one of the leaves. "Now. 
Let's see if this works."

 "What exactly is it supposed to¢aah!" The last of Luke's air came out in an explosive 
burst as a searing pain lanced through his forearm.

 "Perfect," Mara said with grim satisfaction. "You're allergic as anything to them. Oh, 
relax¢the pain will be gone in a few seconds."

 "Oh, thanks," Luke gritted back. The pain was indeed receding. "Right. Now, what 
about this¢mmm!¢this blasteditch ?"

 "That'll hang on a little longer," she said, gesturing at his arm. "But never mind that. 
What do you think?"

 Luke gritted his teeth. The itching was not-so-subtle torture... but she was right. Where 
she'd brushed the leaf the skin had turned dark and puffy, sprinkled with tiny pustules. 
"Looks disgusting," he said.

 "Sure does," she agreed. "You want to do it yourself, or you want me to do it for you?"

 Luke gritted his teeth. This wasnot going to be pleasant. "I can do it."

 It was indeed unpleasant; but by the time he finished brushing his chin with the leaves 
the pain had already begun to recede from his forehead. "I hope I didn't get it too close to 
my eyes," he commented between clenched teeth, throwing the leaves away into the 
forest and fighting hard against the urge to dig into his face with both sets of fingernails. 
"It'd be handy to be able to see the rest of the afternoon."

 "I think you'll be all right," Mara assured him, studying the result. "The rest of your face 
is pretty horrendous, though. You won't look anything like whatever pictures they have, 
that's for sure."

 "Glad to hear it." Luke took a deep breath and ran through the Jedi pain suppression 
exercises. Without the Force they weren't all that effective, but they seemed to help a 
little. "How long will I look like this?"

 "The puffiness should start going down in a few hours. It won't be completely gone until 
tomorrow."

 "Good enough. We ready, then?"

 "As ready as we'll ever be." Turning her back to Artoo, she took the travois handles and 
started walking. "Come on."

  

 They made good time, despite the lingering tenderness of Mara's ankle and the 
distractions inherent in a faceful of itch. To Luke's relief, the itching began to fade after 
about half an hour, leaving only puffy numbness behind it.

 Mara's ankle was another story, however, and as he walked behind her and Artoo he 
could see clearly how she was having to favor it. The added burden of Artoo's travois 
wasn't helping, and twice he almost suggested that they give up on the role switching. But 
he resisted the urge. It was their best chance of getting out of this, and they both knew it.

 Besides which, she had far too much pride to agree.

 They'd gone perhaps another kilometer, with the whine/drone of the speeder bikes rising 
and falling in the distance, when suddenly they were there.

 There were two of them: biker scouts in glistening white armor, swooping up to them 
and braking to a halt almost before Luke's ears had registered the sound of their 
approach. Which meant a very short ride, with target position already known.

 Which meant that the entire search party must have had them located and vectored for at 
least the past few minutes. It was just as well, Luke reflected, that he hadn't tried 
switching roles with Mara.

 "Halt!" one of the scouts called unnecessarily as they hovered there, both swivel blaster 
cannons trained and ready. "Identify yourselves, in the name of the Empire."

 And it was performance time. "Boy, am I gladyou showed up," Luke called back, 
putting as much relief into his voice as the puffy cheeks allowed. "You don't happen to 
have some sort of transport handy, do you? I'm about walked off my feet."

 There was just the slightest flicker of hesitation. "Identify yourself," the scout repeated.

 "My name's Jade," Luke told him. He gestured at Mara. "Got a gift here for Talon 
Karrde. I don't supposehe sent some transport, did he?"

 There was a short pause. The scouts conferring privately between themselves, Luke 
decided, or else calling back to base for instructions. The fact that the prisoner was a 
woman did indeed seem to have thrown them. Whether it would be enough, of course, 
was another question entirely.

 "You'll come with us," the scout ordered. "Our officer wants to talk to you. 
You¢woman¢put the droid down and move away from it."

 "Fine with me," Luke said as the second scout maneuvered his speeder bike to a position 
in front of Artoo's travois. "But I want both of you to witness, for the record, that I had 
her fair and square before you showed up. Karrde weasels his way out of these capture 
fees too often; he's not going to weasel out of this one."

 "You're a bounty hunter?" the scout asked, a clear note of disdain in his voice.

 "That's right," Luke said, putting some professional dignity in his voice as a counter to 
the scout's contempt. Not that he minded their distaste. He was, in fact, counting on it. 
The more firmly the Imperials had the wrong image of him set in their minds, the longer 
it would take them to see through the deception.

 Somewhere in the back of his mind, though, he couldn't help but wonder if this was the 
sort of trick a Jedi should use.

 The second scout had dismounted and fastened the handles of Artoo's travois to the rear 
of his speeder bike. Remounting, he headed off at about the speed of a brisk walk. "You 
two follow him," the first scout ordered, swinging around to take up the rear. "Drop your 
blaster on the ground first, Jade."

 Luke complied, and they set off. The first scout put down just long enough to scoop up 
the abandoned blaster and then followed.

 It took another hour to reach the edge of the forest. The two speeder bikes stayed with 
them the whole time; but as they traveled, the party began to grow. More speeder bikes 
swept in from both sides, falling into close formation on either side of Luke and Mara or 
else joining up with the guards to both front and rear. As they neared the forest's edge, 
fully armored stormtroopers began to appear, too, moving in with blaster rifles held ready 
across their chests to take up positions around the two prisoners. As they did so, the 
scouts began drifting away, ranging farther out to form a kind of moving screen.

 By the time they finally stepped out from under the forest canopy, their escort numbered 
no fewer than ten biker scouts and twenty stormtroopers. It was an impressive display of 
military power... and more even than the fact of the search itself, it drove home to Luke 
the seriousness with which the mysterious man in charge of the Empire was treating this 
incident. Even at the height of their power, the Imperials hadn't spent stormtroopers 
lightly.

 Three more people were waiting for them in the fifty-meter strip of open land between 
the forest and the nearest structures of Hyllyard City: two more stormtroopers and a 
hard-faced man wearing a major's insignia on his dusty brown Imperial uniform. "About 
time," the latter muttered under his breath as Mara and Luke were nudged in his 
direction. "Who are they?"

 "The male says his name is Jade," one of the stormtroopers in front reported in that 
slightly filtered voice they all seemed to have. "Bounty hunter; works for Karrde. He 
claims the female is his prisoner."

 "Washis prisoner," the major corrected, looking at Mara. "What's your name, thief?"

 "Senni Kiffu," Mara said, her voice surly. "And I'm not a thief. Talon Karrde owes 
me¢he owes me big. I didn't take any more than I had coming."

 The major looked at Luke, and Luke shrugged. "Karrde's other dealings aren't any of my 
business. He said bring her back. I brought her back."

 "And her theft, too, I see." He looked at Artoo, still tied to his travois and dragging 
behind the speeder bike. "Get that droid off your bike," he ordered the scout. "The 
ground's flat enough here, and I want you on perimeter. Put it with the prisoners. Cuff 
them, too¢they're hardly likely to fall over tree roots out here."

 "Wait a minute," Luke objected as one of the stormtroopers stepped toward him. "Me, 
too?"

 The major raised his eyebrows slightly. "You got a problem with that, bounty hunter?" 
he asked, his voice challenging.

 "Yeah, I got a problem with it," Luke shot back. "She'sthe prisoner here, not me."

 "For the moment you're both prisoners," the other countered. "So shut up." He frowned 
at Luke's face. "What in the Empire happened to you, anyway?"

 So they weren't going to be able to pass the puffiness off as Luke's natural features. 
"Ran into some kind of bush while I was chasing her," he growled as the stormtrooper 
roughly cuffed his hands in front of him. "It itched like blazes for a while."

 The major smiled thinly. "How very inconvenient for you," he said dryly. "How 
fortunate that we have a fully qualified medic back at HQ. He should be able to bring that 
swelling down in no time." He held Luke's gaze a moment longer, then shifted his 
attention to the stormtrooper leader. "You disarmed him, of course."

 The stormtrooper gestured, and the first of the biker scouts swooped close to hand 
Mara's blaster to the major. "Interesting weapon," the major murmured, turning it over in 
his hands before sliding it into his belt. From overhead came a soft hum, and Luke looked 
up to see a repulsorlift craft settle into place overhead. A Chariot assault vehicle, just as 
Mara had predicted. "Ah," the major said, glancing up at it. "All right, Commander. Let's 
go."

 In many ways, Hyllyard City reminded Luke of Mos Eisley: small houses and 
commercial buildings crammed fairly tightly together, with relatively narrow streets 
running between them. The troop headed around the perimeter, clearly aiming for one of 
the wider avenues that seemed to radiate, spokelike, from the center of town. Looking 
into the city as they passed by the outer buildings, Luke was able to catch occasional 
glimpses of what seemed to be an open area a few blocks away. The town square, 
possibly, or else a spacecraft landing area.

 The vanguard had just reached the target street when, in perfect synchronization, the 
stormtroopers abruptly changed formation. Those in the inner circle pulled in closer to 
Luke and Mara while those in the outer circle moved farther away, the whole crowd 
coming to a halt and gesturing to their prisoners to do the same. A moment later, the 
reason for the sudden maneuver came around the corner: four scruffy-looking men 
walking briskly toward them with a fifth man in the center of their square, his hands 
chained behind him.

 They had barely emerged from the street when they were intercepted by a group of four 
stormtroopers. A short and inaudible conversation ensued, which concluded with the 
strangers handing their blasters over to the stormtroopers with obvious reluctance. 
Escorted now by the Imperials, they continued on toward the main group... and as they 
walked, Luke finally got a clear look at the prisoner. It was Han Solo.

 The stormtroopers opened their ranks slightly to let the newcomers through. "What do 
you want?" the major demanded as they stopped in front of him.

 "Name's Chin," one of them said. "We caught this ratch snooping around the 
forest¢maybe looking for your prisoners there. Figured you might want to have a talk 
with him, hee?"

 "Uncommonly generous of you," the major said sardonically, giving Han a quick, 
measuring glance. "You come to this conclusion all by yourself?"

 Chin drew himself up. "Just because I don't live in a big flashy city doesn't mean I'm 
stupid," he said stiffly. "What hai¢you think we don't know what it means when Imperial 
stormtroopers start setting up a temporary garrison?"

 The major gave him a long, cool look. "You'd best just hope that the garrisonis 
temporary." He glanced at the stormtrooper beside him, jerked his head toward Han. 
"Check him for weapons."

