 A strange sort of low moan rumbled in Khabarakh's throat. "I am only a soldier, my 
lady. These matters are far beyond my authority and ability. My duty is to obey my 
orders.All of my orders."

 Leia frowned. Something about the way he'd said that... and abruptly, she knew what it 
was. For a captured commando facing interrogation, there could be only one order left to 
follow. "Yet you now know something none of your people are aware of," she said 
quickly. "You must live, to bring this information to them."

 Khabarakh had brought his palms to face each other, as if preparing to clap them 
together. Now he froze, staring at her. "The Lord Vader could read the souls of the 
Noghri," he said softly. "You are indeed hisMal'ary'ush ."

 "Your people need you, Khabarakh," she told him. "As do I. Your death now would 
only hurt those you seek to help."

 Slowly, he lowered his hands. "How is it you need me?"

 "Because I need your help if I'm to do anything for your people," she said. "You must 
tell me the location of your world."

 "I cannot," he said firmly. "To do so could bring ultimate destruction upon my world. 
And upon me, if it were learned I had given you such information."

 Leia pursed her lips. "Then take me there."

 "I cannot!"

 "Why not?"

 "I... cannot."

 She fixed him with her best regal stare. "I am the daughter¢theMal'ary'ush ¢of the Lord 
Darth Vader," she said firmly. "By your own admission, he was the hope of your world. 
Have matters improved since he delivered you to your new leader?"

 He hesitated. "No. He has told us there is little more that he or anyone else can do."

 "I would prefer to judge that for myself," she told him loftily. "Or would your people 
consider a single human to be such a threat?"

 Khabarakh twitched. "You would come alone? To a people seeking your capture?"

 Leia swallowed hard, a shiver running down her back. No, she hadn't meant to imply 
that. But then, she hadn't been sure of why she'd wanted to talk to Khabarakh in the first 
place. She could only hope that the Force was guiding her intuition in all this. "I trust 
your people to be honorable," she said quietly. "I trust them to grant me a hearing."

 She turned and stepped to the door. "Consider my offer," she told him. "Discuss it with 
those whose counsel you value. Then, if you choose, meet me in orbit above the world of 
Endor in one month's time."

 "You will come alone?" Khabarakh asked, apparently still not believing it.

 She turned and looked him straight in that nightmare face. "I will come alone. Will 
you?"

 He faced her stare without flinching. "If I come," he said, "I will come alone."

 She held his gaze a moment longer, then nodded. "I hope to see you there. Farewell."

 "Farewell... Lady Vader."

 He was still staring at her as the door opened and she left.

  

 The tiny ship shot upward through the clouds, vanishing quickly from the Rwookrrorro 
air-control visual monitor. Beside Leia, Chewbacca growled angrily. "I can't say I'm 
really happy with it, either," she confessed. "But we can't dodge them forever. If we have 
even a chance of getting them out from under Imperial control..." She shook her head.

 Chewbacca growled again. "I know," she said softly, some of his pain finding its way 
into her own heart. "I wasn't as close to Salporin as you were, but he was still my friend."

 The Wookiee turned away from the monitors and stomped across the room. Leia 
watched him, wishing there was something she could do to help. But there wasn't. Caught 
between conflicting demands of honor, he would have to work this out in the privacy of 
his own mind.

 Behind her, someone stirred. [It is time,] Ralrra said. [The memorial period has begun. 
We must join the otherrs.]

 Chewbacca growled an acknowledgment and went over to join him. Leia looked at 
Ralrra¢ [This period is forr Wookiees only,] he rumbled. [Laterr, you will be permitted to 
join us.]

 "I understand," Leia said. "If you need me, I'll be on the landing platform, getting 
theLady Luck ready to fly."

 [If you truly feel it is safe to leave,] Ralrra said, still sounding doubtful.

 "It is," Leia told him. And even if it wasn't, she added silently to herself, she would still 
have no choice. She had a species name now¢Noghri¢and it was vital that she return to 
Coruscant and get another records search underway.

 [Very well. The mourning period will begin in two hourrs.]

 Leia nodded, blinking back tears. "I'll be there," she promised.

 And wondered if this war would ever truly be over.

  

 Chapter 26

 The mass of vines hung twisted around and between half a dozen trees, looking like the 
web of a giant spider gone berserk. Fingering Skywalker's lightsaber, Mara studied the 
tangle, trying to figure out the fastest way to clear the path.

 Out of the corner of her eye, she saw Skywalker fidgeting. "Just keep your shirt on," she 
told him. "This'll only take a minute."

 "You really don't have to go for finesse, you know," he offered. "It's not like the 
lightsaber's running low on power."

 "Yes, butwe're running low on forest," she retorted. "You have any idea how far the 
hum of a lightsaber can carry in woods like this?"

 "Not really."

 "Me, neither. I'd like to keep it that way." She shifted her blaster to her left hand, ignited 
the lightsaber with her right, and made three quick cuts. The tangle of vines dropped to 
the ground as she closed the weapon down. "That wasn't so hard, now, was it?" she said, 
turning to face Skywalker and hooking the lightsaber back onto her belt. She started to 
turn away¢

 The droid's warning squeal came a fraction of a second before the sudden rustle of 
leaves. She whirled back, flipping her blaster into her right hand as the vornskr leaped 
toward Skywalker from a branch three trees away.

 Even after two long days of travel, Skywalker's reflexes were still adequate to the task. 
He let go the handles of the travois and dropped to the ground just ahead of the vornskr's 
trajectory. Four sets of claws and a whip tail took a concerted swipe at him as the 
predator shot by overhead. Mara waited until it had landed, and as it spun back around 
toward its intended prey, she shot it.

 Cautiously, Skywalker got back to his feet and looked warily around. "I wish you'd 
change your mind about giving me back my lightsaber," he commented as he bent down 
to pick up the travois handles again. "You must be getting tired of shooting vornskrs off 
me."

 "What, you afraid I'm going to miss?" she retorted, stepping over to prod the vornskr 
with her foot. It was dead, all right.

 "You're an excellent shot," he conceded, dragging the travois toward the tangle of vines 
she'd just cleared out. "But you've also gone two nights without any sleep. That's going to 
catch up with you eventually."

 "You just worry about yourself," she snapped. "Come on, get moving¢we need to find 
someplace clear enough to send up the sonde balloon."

 Skywalker headed off, the droid strapped to the travois behind him beeping softly to 
itself. Mara brought up the rear, watching to make sure the travois wasn't leaving too 
clear a trail and scowling hard at the back of Skywalker's head.

 The really irritating part was that he was right. That pass from left to right hand a minute 
ago¢a technique she'd done a thousand times before¢she'd come within a hair of missing 
the catch completely. Her heart thudded constantly now, not quieting down even during 
rest. And there were long periods during their march where her mind simply drifted, 
instead of focusing on the task at hand.

 Once, long ago, she'd gone six days without sleep. Now, after only two, she was already 
starting to fall apart.

 She clenched her teeth and scowled a little harder. If he was hoping to see the collapse, 
he was going to be sorely disappointed. If for no other reason than professional pride, she 
was going to see this through.

 Ahead, Skywalker stumbled slightly as he crossed a patch of rough ground. The right 
travois handle slipped out of his grip, nearly dumping the droid off the travois and 
eliciting a squeal of protest from the machine. "So who's getting tired now?" Mara 
growled as he stooped to pick up the stick again. "That's the third time in the past hour."

 "It's just my hand," he replied calmly. "It seems to be permanently numb this 
afternoon."

 "Sure," she said. Ahead, a small patch of blue sky winked down through the tree 
branches. "There's our hole," she said, nodding to it. "Put the droid in the middle."

 Skywalker did as he was instructed, then went and sat down against one of the trees 
edging the tiny clearing. Mara got the small sonde balloon filled and sent it aloft on its 
antenna wire, running a line from the receiver into the socket where the droid's retrieval 
jack had once been. "All set," she said, glancing over at Skywalker.

 Leaning back against his tree, he was sound asleep.

 Mara snorted with contempt.Jedi! she threw the epithet at him as she turned back to the 
droid. "Come on, let's get going," she told it, sitting down carefully on the ground. Her 
twisted ankle seemed to be largely healed, but she knew better than to push it.

 The droid beeped questioningly, its dome swiveling around to look briefly at Skywalker. 
"I said let's get going," she repeated harshly.

 The droid beeped again, a resigned sort of sound. The communicator's pulse indicator 
flashed once as the droid requested a message dump from the distant X-wing's computer; 
flashed again as the dump came back.

 Abruptly the droid squealed in obvious excitement. "What?" Mara demanded, snatching 
out her blaster and giving the area a quick scan. Nothing seemed out of place. "What, 
there's finally a message?"

 The droid beeped affirmatively, its dome again turning toward Skywalker. "Well, let's 
have it," Mara growled. "Come on¢if there's anything in it he needs to hear, you can play 
it for him later."

 Assuming¢she didn't add¢there wasn't anything in the message that suggested she 
needed to come out of the forest alone. If there was...

 The droid bent forward slightly, and a holographic image appeared on the matted leaves.

 But not an image of Karrde, as she'd expected. It was, instead, an image of a 
golden-skinned protocol droid. "Good day, Master Luke," the protocol droid said in a 
remarkably prissy voice. "I bring greetings to you from Captain Karrde¢and, of course, to 
you as well, Mistress Mara," it added, almost as an afterthought. "He and Captain Solo 
are most pleased to hear you are both alive and well after your accident."

 Captain Solo?Mara stared at the holograph, feeling totally stunned. What in the Empire 
did Karrde think he was doing?¢ he'd actuallytold Solo and Calrissian about Skywalker?

 "I trust you'll be able to decrypt this message, Artoo," the protocol prissy continued. 
"Captain Karrde suggested that I be used to add a bit more confusion to the counterpart 
encrypt. According to him, there are Imperial stormtroopers waiting in Hyllyard City for 
you to make your appearance."

 Mara clenched her teeth, throwing a look at her sleeping prisoner. So Thrawn hadn't 
been fooled. He knew Skywalker was here, and was waiting to take them both.

 With a vicious effort, she stifled the fatigue-fed panic rising in her throat. No. Thrawn 
didn'tknow ¢at least, not for sure. He only suspected. If he'd known for sure, there 
wouldn't have been anyone left back at the camp to send her this message.

 "The story Captain Karrde told the Imperials was that a former employee stole valuable 
merchandise and tried to escape, with a current employee named Jade in pursuit. He 
suggests that, since he never specified Jade as being a woman, that perhaps you and 
Mistress Mara could switch roles when you leave the forest."

 "Right," Mara muttered under her breath. If Karrde thought she was going to cheerfully 
hand her blaster over for Skywalker to stick in her back, he'd better try thinking again.

 "At any rate," the protocol droid continued, "he says he and Captain Solo are working 
out a plan to try to intercept you before the stormtroopers do. If not, they will do their 
best to rescue you from them. I'm afraid there's nothing more I can say at the 
moment¢Captain Karrde has put a one-minute real-time limit on this message, to prevent 
anyone from locating the transmission point. He wishes you good luck. Take good care of 
Master Luke, Artoo... and yourself, too."

 The image vanished and the droid's projector winked out. Mara shut down the 
communicator, setting the antenna spool to begin winding the balloon back down.

 "It's a good idea," Skywalker murmured.

 She looked sharply at him. His eyes were still closed. "Ithought you were faking," she 
spat, not really truthfully.

 "Not faking," he corrected her sleepily. "Drifting in and out. It's still a good idea."

 She snorted. "Forget it. We'll try going a couple of kilometers north instead, circling out 
and back to Hyllyard from the plains." She glanced at her chrono, then up through the 
trees. Dark clouds had moved in over the past few minutes, covering the blue sky that had 
been there. Not rain clouds, she decided, but they would still cut rather strongly into what 
was left of the available daylight. "We might as well save that for tomorrow," she said, 
favoring her ankle again as she got back to her feet. "You want to get¢oh, never mind," 
she interrupted herself. If his breathing was anything to go by, he'd drifted off again.

 Which left the task of putting camp together up to her. Terrific. "Stay put," she growled 
to the droid. She turned back to where she'd dropped the survival kit¢

 The droid's electronic shriek brought her spinning back around again, hand clawing for 
her blaster, eyes flicking around for the danger¢

 And then a heavy weight slammed full onto her shoulders and back, sending hot needles 
of pain into her skin and throwing her face-first to the ground.

 Her last thought, before the darkness took her, was to wish desperately that she'd killed 
Skywalker when she'd had the chance.

  

 Artoo's warbling alert jerked Luke out of his doze. His eyes snapped open, just as a blur 
of muscle and claw launched itself through space onto Mara's back.

 He bounded to his feet, sleepiness abruptly gone. The vornskr was standing over Mara, 
its front claws planted on her shoulders, its head turned to the side as it prepared to sink 
its teeth into her neck. Mara herself lay unmoving, the back of her head toward 
Luke¢dead or merely stunned, it was impossible to tell. Artoo, clearly too far away to 
reach her in time, was nevertheless moving in that direction as fast as his wheels could 
manage, his small electric arc welder extended as if for battle.

 Taking a deep breath, Luke screamed.

 Not an ordinary scream; but a shivering, booming, inhuman howl that seemed to fill the 
entire clearing and reverberate back from the distant hills. It was the blood-freezing call 
of a krayt dragon, the same call Ben Kenobi had used to scare the sand people away from 
him all those years ago on Tatooine.

 The vornskr wasn't scared away. But it was clearly startled, its prey temporarily 
forgotten. Shifting its weight partially off Mara's back, it turned, crouching, to stare 
toward the sound.

 For a long moment Luke locked gazes with the creature, afraid to move lest he break the 
spell. If he could distract it long enough for Artoo to get there with his welder...

 And then, still pinned to the ground, Mara twitched. Luke cupped his hands around his 
mouth and howled again. Again, the vornskr shifted its weight in response.

 And with a sound that was half grunt and half combat yell, Mara twisted around onto 
her back beneath the predator, her hands snaking past the front claws to grip its throat.

 It was the only opening Luke was going to get; and with a vornskr against an injured 
human, it wasn't going to last for long. Pushing off from the tree trunk behind him, Luke 
charged, aiming for the vornskr's flank.

 He never got there. Even as he braced himself for the impact, the vornskr's whip tail 
whistled out of nowhere to catch him solidly along shoulder and face and send him 
sprawling sideways to the ground.

 He was on his feet again in an instant, dimly aware of the line of fire burning across 
cheek and forehead. The vornskr hissed as he came toward it again, slashing razor-sharp 
claws at him to ward him back. Artoo reached the struggle and sent a spark into the 
predator's left front paw; almost casually, the vornskr swung at the welder, snapping it off 
and sending the pieces flying. Simultaneously, the tail whipped around, the impact lifting 
Artoo up on one set of wheels. It swung again and again, each time coming closer to 
knocking the droid over.

 Luke gritted his teeth, mind searching furiously for a plan. Shadowboxing at the 
creature's head like this wasn't anything more than a delaying tactic; but the minute the 
distraction ceased, Mara was as good as dead. The vornskr would either slash her arms 
with its claws or else simply overwhelm her grip by brute force. With the loss of his 
welder, Artoo had no fighting capability left; and if the vornskr kept at him with that 
whip tail...

 The tail. "Artoo!" Luke snapped. "Next time that tail hits you, try to grab it."

 Artoo beeped a shaky acknowledgment and extended his heavy grasping arm. Luke 
watched out of the corner of his eye, still trying to keep the vornskr's head and front paws 
busy. The tail whipped around again, and with a warble of triumph, Artoo caught it.

 A warble that turned quickly into a screech. Again with almost casual strength, the 
vornskr ripped its tail free, taking most of the grasping arm with it.

 But it had been pinned out of action for a pair of heartbeats, and that was all the time 
Luke needed. Diving around Artoo's bulk and under the trapped whip tail, he darted his 
hand to Mara's side and snatched back his lightsaber.

 The whip tail slashed toward him as he rolled back to his feet, but by the time it got 
there Luke was out of range around Artoo's side again. Igniting the lightsaber, he reached 
the blazing blade past the flailing claws and brushed the vornskr's nose.

 The predator screamed, in anger or pain, shying back from this bizarre creature that had 
bit it. Luke tapped it again and again, trying to drive it away from Mara where he could 
safely deliver a killing blow.

 Abruptly, in a single smooth motion, the vornskr leaped backwards onto solid ground, 
then sprang straight at Luke. Also in a single smooth motion, Luke cut it in half.

 "About time," a hoarse voice croaked from beneath his feet. He looked down to see 
Mara push half the dead vornskr off her chest and raise herself up on one elbow. "What 
in blazes was that stupid game you were playing?"

 "I didn't think you'd like your hands cut off if I missed," Luke told her, breathing hard. 
He took a step back as she sat up and offered her a helping hand.

 She waved the hand away. Rolling slowly onto hands and knees, she pushed herself 
tiredly to her feet and turned back to face him.

 With her blaster back in her hand.

 "Just drop the lightsaber and move back," she panted, gesturing with the weapon for 
emphasis.

 Luke sighed, shaking his head. "I don't believe you," he said, shutting down the 
lightsaber and dropping it onto the ground. The adrenaline was receding from his system 
now, leaving both face and shoulder aching like fury. "Or didn't you notice that Artoo and 
I just saved your life?"

 "I noticed. Thanks." Keeping her blaster trained on him, Mara stooped to retrieve the 
lightsaber. "I figure that's my reward for not shooting you two days ago. Get over there 
and sit down."

 Luke looked over at Artoo, who was moaning softly to himself. "Do you mind if I look 
at Artoo first?"

 Mara looked down at the droid, her lips compressed into a thin line. "Sure, go ahead." 
Moving clear of both of them, she picked up the survival pack and trudged off to one of 
the trees at the edge of the clearing.

 Artoo wasn't in as bad a shape as Luke had feared. Both the welder and the grasping 
arm had broken off cleanly, leaving no trailing wires or partial components that might get 
caught on something else. Speaking quiet encouragement to the droid, Luke got the two 
compartments sealed.

 "Well?" Mara asked, sitting with her back to a tree and gingerly applying salve to the 
oozing claw marks on her arms.

 "He's okay for now," Luke told her as he went back over to his own tree and sat down. 
"He's been damaged worse than this before."

 "I'm so glad to hear it," she said sourly. She glanced at Luke, took a longer look. "He 
got you good, didn't he?"

 Carefully, Luke touched the welt running across his cheek and forehead. "I'll be all 
right."

 She snorted. "Sure you will," she said, her voice laced with sarcasm as she went back to 
treating her gashes. "I forgot¢you're a hero, too."

 For a long minute Luke watched her, trying once more to understand the complexities 
and contradictions of this strange woman. Even from three meters away he could see that 
her hand was shaking as she applied the salve: with reaction, perhaps, or muscle fatigue. 
Almost certainly with fear¢she'd escaped a bloody death by a bare handful of 
centimeters, and she would have to be a fool not to recognize that.

 And yet, whatever she was feeling inside, she was clearly determined not to let any of it 
out past that rock-hard surface she'd so carefully built up around herself. As if she was 
afraid to let weakness of any sort show through...

 Abruptly, as if feeling his eyes on her, Mara looked up. "I said thanks already," she 
growled. "What do you want, a medal?"

 Luke shook his head. "I just want to know what happened to you."

 For a moment those green eyes flashed again with the old hatred. But only for a 
moment. The vornskr attack, coming on top of two days of laborious travel and no sleep, 
had taken a severe toll on her emotional strength. The anger faded from her eyes, leaving 
only a tired coldness behind. "Youhappened to me," she told him, her voice more fatigued 
than embittered. "You came out of a grubby sixth-rate farm on a tenth-rate planet, and 
destroyed my life."

 "How?"

 Contempt briefly filled her face. "You don't have the faintest idea who I am, do you?"

 Luke shook his head. "I'm sure I'd remember you if we'd met."

 "Oh, right," she said sardonically. "The great, omniscient Jedi. See all, hear all, know 
all, understand all. No, we didn't actually meet; but I was there, if you'd bothered to 
notice me. I was a dancer at Jabba the Hutt's palace the day you came for Solo."

 So that was it. She'd worked for Jabba; and when he'd killed Jabba, he'd ruined her life...

 Luke frowned at her. No. Her slim figure, her agility and grace¢those certainly could 
belong to a professional dancer. But her piloting skills, her expert marksmanship, her 
inexplicable working knowledge of lightsabers¢those most certainly did not.

 Mara was still waiting, daring him with her expression to figure it out. "You weren't just 
a dancer, though," he told her. "That was only a cover."

 Her lip twisted. "Very good. That vaunted Jedi insight, no doubt. Keep going; you're 
doing so well. What was I really doing there?"

 Luke hesitated. There were all sorts of possibilities for this one: bounty hunter, 
smuggler, quiet bodyguard for Jabba, spy from some rival criminal organization...

 No. Her knowledge of lightsabers... and suddenly, all the pieces fell together with a 
rush. "You were waiting for me," he said. "Vader knew I'd go there to try and rescue Han, 
and he sent you to capture me."

 "Vader?" She all but spat the name. "Don't make me laugh. Vader was a fool, and 
skating on the edge of treason along with it. My master sent me to Jabba's to kill you, not 
recruit you."

 Luke stared at her, an icy shiver running up his back. It couldn't be... but even as he 
gazed into that tortured face, he knew with sudden certainty that it was. "And your 
master," he said quietly, "was the Emperor."

 "Yes," she said, her voice a snake's hiss. "And you destroyed him."

 Luke swallowed hard, the pounding of his own heart the only sound. He hadn't killed 
the Emperor¢Darth Vader had done that¢but Mara didn't seem inclined to worry over 
such subtleties. "You're wrong, though," he said. "Hedid try to recruit me."

 "Only because I failed," she ground out, her throat muscles tight. "And only when Vader 
had you standing right there in front of him. What, you don't think he knew Vader had 
offered to help you overthrow him?"

 Unconsciously, Luke flexed the fingers of his numbed artificial hand. Yes, Vader had 
indeed suggested such an alliance during their Cloud City duel. "I don't think it was a 
serious offer," he murmured.

 "The Emperor did," Mara said flatly. "He knew. And what he knew, I knew."

 Her eyes filled with distant pain. "I was his hand, Skywalker," she said, her voice 
remembering. "That's how I was known to his inner court: as the Emperor's Hand. I 
served him all over the galaxy, doing jobs the Imperial Fleet and stormtroopers couldn't 
handle. That was my one great talent, you see¢I could hear his call from anywhere in the 
Empire, and report back to him the same way. I exposed traitors for him, brought down 
his enemies, helped him keep the kind of control over the mindless bureaucracies that he 
needed. I had prestige, and power, and respect."

 Slowly, her eyes came back from the past. "And you took it all away from me. If only 
for that, you deserve to die."

 "What went wrong?" Luke forced himself to ask.

 Her lip twisted. "Jabba wouldn't let me go with the execution party. That was it¢pure 
and simple. I tried begging, cajoling, bargaining¢I couldn't change his mind."

 "No," Luke said soberly. "Jabba was highly resistant to the mind-controlling aspects of 
the Force."

 But if shehad been on the Sail Barge...

 Luke shivered, seeing in his mind's eye that terrifying vision in the dark cave on 
Dagobah. The mysterious silhouetted woman standing there on the Sail Barge's upper 
deck, laughing at him as she held his captured lightsaber high.

 The first time, years ago, the cave had spun him an image of a possible future. This 
time, he knew now, it had shown him a possible past. "You would have succeeded," he 
said quietly.

 Mara looked sharply at him. "I'm not asking for understanding or sympathy," she bit 
out. "You wanted to know. Fine; now you know."

 He let her tend her wounds in silence for a moment. "So why are you here?" he asked. 
"Why not with the Empire?"

 "What Empire?" she countered. "It's dying¢you know that as well as I do."

 "But while it's still there¢"

 She cut him off with a withering glare. "Who would I go to?" she demanded. "They 
didn't know me¢none of them did. Not as the Emperor's Hand, anyway. I was a shadow, 
working outside the normal lines of command and protocol. There were no records kept 
of my activities. Those few I was formally introduced to thought of me as court-hanging 
froth, a minor bit of mobile decoration kept around the palace to amuse the Emperor."

 Her eyes went distant again with memory. "There was nowhere for me to go after 
Endor," she said bitterly. "No contacts, no resources¢I didn't even have a real identity 
anymore. I was on my own."

 "And so you linked up with Karrde."

 "Eventually. First I spent four and a half years sloshing around the rotten underfringes 
of the galaxy, doing whatever I could." Her eyes were steady on him, with a trace of 
hatred fire back in them. "I worked hard to get where I am, Skywalker. You're not going 
to ruin it for me. Not this time."

 "I don't want to ruin anything for you," Luke told her evenly. "All I want is to get back 
to the New Republic."

 "And I want the old Empire back," she retorted. "We don't always get what we want, do 
we?"

 Luke shook his head. "No. We don't."

 For a moment she glared at him. Then, abruptly, she scooped up a tube of salve and 
tossed it at him. "Here¢get that welt fixed up. And get some sleep. Tomorrow's going to 
be a busy day."
