 Aves shook his head. "I don't like it."

 "Neither do I. But we need to be prepared for every eventuality."

 "Understood." For another moment Aves sat there in silence. Then, with a grunted sigh, 
he stood up. "I'd better get back, see if Ghent's made any progress on Mara's message."

 "And after that you'd better hit the sack," Karrde told him. "Tomorrow's going to be a 
busy day."

 "Right. Good night."

 Aves left, and once again the soft mixture of forest sounds filled the night air. Sounds 
that meant a great deal to the creatures who made them but nothing at all to him.

 Meaningless sounds...

 He shook his head tiredly. Whathad Mara been trying to do with that opaque message of 
hers? Was it something simple¢something that he or someone else here ought to be able 
to decrypt with ease?

 Or had the lady who always played the sabacc cards close to her chest finally 
outsmarted herself?

 In the distance, a vornskr emitted its distinctive cackle/purr. Beside his chair, Drang 
lifted his head. "Friend of yours?" Karrde inquired mildly, listening as another vornskr 
echoed the first's cry. Sturm and Drang had been wild like that once, before they'd been 
domesticated.

 Just like Mara had been, when he'd first taken her in. He wondered if she would ever be 
similarly tamed.

 Wondered if she would solve this whole problem by killing Skywalker first.

 The cackle/purr came again, closer this time. "Come on, Drang," he told the vornskr, 
getting to his feet. "Time to go inside."

 He paused at the door to take one last look at the forest, a shiver of melancholy and 
something that felt disturbingly like fear running through him. No, the Grand Admiral 
wasn't going to be happy about this. Wasn't going to be happy at all.

 And one way or the other, Karrde knew that his life here was at an end.

  

 Chapter 25

 The room was quiet and dark, the faint nighttime sounds of Rwookrrorro floating in 
through the mesh window with the cool night breeze. Staring at the curtains, Leia gripped 
her blaster with a sweaty hand, and wondered what had awakened her.

 She lay there for several minutes, heart thudding in her chest. But there was nothing. No 
sounds, no movements, no threats that her limited Jedi senses could detect. Nothing but a 
creepy feeling in the back of her mind that she was no longer safe here. She took a deep 
breath, let it out silently as she continued to listen. It wasn't any fault of her hosts, or at 
least nothing she could blame them for. The city's leaders had been on incredibly tight 
alert the first couple of days, providing her with over a dozen Wookiee bodyguards while 
other volunteers combed through the city like hairy Imperial Walkers, searching for the 
alien she'd spotted that first day here. The whole thing had been carried out with a speed, 
efficiency, and thoroughness that Leia had seldom seen even in the top ranks of the Rebel 
Alliance.

 But as the days passed without anyone finding a trace of the alien, the alert had 
gradually softened. By the time the negative reports also began coming in from other 
Kashyyyk cities, the number of searchers had dwindled to a handful and the dozen 
bodyguards had been reduced to three.

 And now even those three were gone, returning to their regular jobs and lives. Leaving 
her with just Chewbacca, Ralrra, and Salporin to watch over her.

 It was a classic strategy. Lying alone in the dark, with the advantage of hindsight, she 
could see that. Sentient beings, human and Wookiee alike, simply could not maintain a 
continual state of vigilance when there was no visible enemy to be vigilant toward. It was 
a tendency they'd had to fight hard against in the Alliance.

 As they'd also had to fight against the too-often lethal inertia that seduced a person into 
staying too long in one place.

 She winced, memories of the near disaster on the ice world of Hoth coming back to 
haunt her. She and Chewbacca should have left Rwookrrorro days ago, she knew. 
Probably should have left Kashyyyk entirely, for that matter. The place had become too 
comfortable, too familiar¢her mind no longer reallysaw everything that went on around 
her, but merely saw some of it and filled in the rest from memory. It was the kind of 
psychological weakness that a clever enemy could easily exploit, simply by finding a way 
to fit himself into her normal routine.

 It was time for that routine to be broken.

 She peered over at the bedside chrono, did a quick calculation. About an hour until 
dawn. There was a repulsorlift sled parked just outside; if she and Chewbacca got going 
now, they should be able to get theLady Luck into space a little after sunrise. Sitting 
halfway up, she slid across the bed, set her blaster down on the nightstand, and picked up 
her comlink.

 And in the darkness, a sinewy hand reached out to seize her wrist.

 There was no time to think; but for that first half second there was no need. Even as her 
mind froze, stunned by the unexpectedness of the attack, old self-defense reflexes were 
already swinging into action. Falling away from her assailant, using the pull on her arm 
for balance, she swiveled on her hip, tucked her right leg under her, and kicked out with 
all her strength.

 The edge of her foot thudded against something unyielding¢body armor of some kind. 
Reaching back over her shoulder with her free hand, she grabbed the corner of her pillow 
and hurled it at the shadowy outline of his head.

 Under the pillow was her lightsaber.

 It was doubtful that he ever saw the blow coming. He was still in the process of 
scooping the pillow away from his face when the ignited lightsaber lit up the room. She 
got just a glimpse of huge black eyes and protruding jaw before the blazing blade sliced 
him almost in half.

 The grip on her arm was abruptly gone. Closing down the lightsaber, she rolled out of 
bed and back to her feet, igniting the weapon again as she looked around¢

 And with a sudden, numbing blow to her wrist, the lightsaber was knocked across the 
room. It shut down in midflight, plunging the room again into darkness.

 She dropped instantly into combat stance, but even as she did so she knew it was a 
useless gesture. The first alien had perhaps been lulled by the apparent helplessness of his 
victim; the second had obviously learned the lesson. She hadn't even turned all the way 
toward the attacker before her wrist was again captured and twisted around behind her. 
Another hand snaked around to cover her mouth, at the same time jamming her neck hard 
against the attacker's muzzle. One leg twined somehow around her knees, blocking any 
attempt she might make to kick him. She tried anyway, struggling to free at least one leg, 
while at the same time trying to get a clear shot at those eyes with her free hand. His 
breath was hot on her neck, and she could feel the shapes of needle teeth through the jaw 
skin pressing against her. The alien's body went abruptly rigid¢

 And suddenly, without any warning at all, she was free.

 She spun around to face the alien, fighting to regain her balance in the sudden loss of 
anything solid to lean against and wondering what this new game was he was playing. 
Her eyes searched frantically in the dim light, trying to locate the weapon he was surely 
now bringing to bear on her¢

 But there was no weapon pointed at her. The alien just stood there, his back to the door, 
his empty hands splayed off to the sides as if preparing to protect himself from a 
backwards fall."Mal'ary'ush," he hissed, his voice soft and gravelly. Leia took a step 
backwards, wondering if she could get to the window before he launched his next attack.

 The attack never came. Behind the alien, the door slammed open; and with a roar, 
Chewbacca boiled into the room.

 The attacker didn't turn. He made no move at all, in fact, as the Wookiee leaped toward 
him, massive hands reaching for his neck¢

 "Don't kill him!" Leia snapped.

 The words probably startled Chewbacca almost as much as they startled her. But the 
Wookiee's reflexes were equal to the task. Passing up the alien's throat, he swung a hand 
instead to cuff him solidly across the side of the head.

 The blow sent the alien flying halfway across the room and up against the wall. He slid 
down and remained still.

 "Come on," Leia said, rolling across her bed to retrieve her lightsaber. "There may be 
more of them."

 [Not any morre,] a Wookiee voice rumbled, and she looked up to see Ralrra leaning 
against the doorway. [The otherr three have been dealt with.]

 "Are you sure?" Leia asked, taking a step toward him. He was still leaning against the 
doorjamb¢

 Leaninghard against it, she suddenly realized. "You're hurt," she exclaimed, flicking on 
the room light and giving him a quick examination. There were no marks she could see. 
"Blaster?"

 [Stun weapon,] he corrected. [A quieterr weapon, but it was set too low forr Wookiees. I 
am only a little weak. Chewbacca it is who is wounded.]

 Startled, Leia looked over at Chewbacca... and for the first time saw the small patch of 
matted brown hair midway down his torso. "Chewie!" she breathed, starting toward him.

 He waved her away with an impatient growl. [He is right,] Ralrra agreed. [We must get 
you away from herre, beforre the second attack comes.]

 From somewhere outside a Wookiee began howling an alert. "There won't be a second 
attack," she told Ralrra. "They've been noticed¢there'll be people converging on this 
house in minutes."

 [Not on this house,] Ralrra rumbled, a strange grimness to his voice. [Therre is a firre 
fourr houses away.]

 Leia stared at him, a chill running up her back. "A diversion," she murmured. "They set 
a house on fire to mask any alert you try to make."

 Chewbacca growled an affirmative. [We must get you away from herre,] Ralrra 
repeated, easing himself carefully upright.

 Leia glanced past him through the doorway to the darker hallway beyond, a strange 
dread suddenly twisting into her stomach. There had beenthree Wookiees in the house 
with her. "Where's Salporin?" she asked.

 Ralrra hesitated, just long enough for her suspicions to become a terrible certainty. [He 
did not survive the attack,] the Wookiee said, almost too softly for her to hear.

 Leia swallowed hard. "I'm sorry," she said, the words sounding painfully trite and 
meaningless in her ears.

 [As arre we. But the time forr mourning is not now.]

 Leia nodded, blinking back sudden tears as she turned to the window. She'd lost many 
friends and companions in the midst of battle through the years, and she knew that Ralrra 
was right. But all the logic in the universe didn't make it any easier.

 There were no aliens visible outside. But they were there¢ that much she was sure of. 
Both of the previous teams she and Han had tangled with had consisted of considerably 
more than five members, and there was no reason to expect this one to be any different. 
Chances were that any attempt to escape overland would meet with a quick ambush.

 Worse, as soon as the hue and cry over the burning house really got going, the aliens 
could likely launch a second attack with impunity, counting on the commotion down the 
street to cover up any noise they made in the process.

 She glanced at the burning house, feeling a brief pang of guilt for the Wookiees who 
owned it. Resolutely, she forced the emotion out of her mind. There, too, there was 
nothing she could do for now. "The aliens seem to want me alive," she said, dropping the 
edge of the curtain and turning back to Chewbacca and Ralrra. "If we can get the sled 
into the sky, they probably won't try to shoot us down."

 [Do you trust the sled?] Ralrra asked pointedly.

 Leia stopped short, lips pressed tightly together in annoyance with herself. No, of course 
she didn't trust the sled¢the first thing the aliens would have done would have been to 
disable any escape vehicle within reach. Disable it, or worse: they could have modified it 
to simply fly her directly into their arms.

 She couldn't stay put; she couldn't go sideways; and she couldn't go up. Which left 
exactly one direction.

 "I'll need some rope," she said, scooping up an armful of clothes and starting to get 
dressed. "Strong enough to hold my weight. As much as you've got."

 They were fast, all right. A quick glance between them¢ [You cannot be serious,] Ralrra 
told her. [The dangerr would be great even forr a Wookiee. Forr a human it would be 
suicide.]

 "I don't think so," Leia shook her head, pulling on her boots. "I saw how the branches 
twist together, when we looked at the bottom of the city. It should be possible for me to 
climb along between them."

 [You will neverr reach the landing platform alone,] Ralrra objected. [We will come with 
you.]

 "You're in no shape to travel down the street, let alone underneath it," Leia countered 
bluntly. She picked up her blaster, bolstered it, and stepped to the doorway. "Neither is 
Chewbacca. Get out of my way, please."

 Ralrra didn't budge. [You do not fool us, Leiaorrganasolo. You believe that if we stay 
herre the enemy will follow you and leave us in peace.]

 Leia grimaced. So much for the quiet, noble self-sacrifice. "There's a good chance they 
will," she insisted. "It's me they want. And they want me alive."

 [Therre is no time to argue,] Ralrra said. [We will stay togetherr. Herre, orr underr the 
city.]

 Leia took a deep breath. She didn't like it, but it was clear she wasn't going to be able to 
talk them out of it. "All right, you win," she sighed. The alien Chewbacca had hit was 
still lying unconscious, and for a moment she debated whether or not they dared take the 
time to tie him up. The need for haste won. "Let's find some rope and get moving."

 And besides, a small voice in the back of her head reminded her, even if she went alone, 
the aliens might still attack the house. And might prefer leaving no witnesses behind.

  

 The flat, somewhat spongy material that formed the "ground" of Rwookrrorro was less 
than a meter thick. Leia's lightsaber cut through both it and the house's floor with ease, 
dropping a roughly square chunk between the braided branches to vanish into the 
darkness below.

 [I will go first,] Ralrra said, dropping into the hole before anyone could argue the point. 
He was still moving a little slowly, but at least the stun-induced dizzy spells seemed to 
have passed.

 Leia looked up as Chewbacca stepped close to her and flipped Ralrra's baldric around 
her shoulders. "Last chance to change your mind about this arrangement," she warned 
him.

 His answer was short and to the point. By the time Ralrra's quiet [All clearr] floated up, 
they were ready.

 And with Leia strapped firmly to his torso, Chewbacca eased his way through the hole.

 Leia had fully expected the experience to be unpleasant. She hadn't realized that it was 
going to be terrifying, as well. The Wookiees didn't crawl across the tops of the plaited 
branches, the way she'd anticipated doing. Instead, using the climbing claws she'd seen 
her first day here, they hung by all fours underneath the branches to travel.

 And then theytraveled .

 The side of her face pressed against Chewbacca's hairy chest, Leia clenched her teeth 
tightly together, partly to keep them from chattering with the bouncing, but mostly to 
keep moans of fear from escaping. It was like the acrophobia she'd felt in the liftcar, 
multiplied by a thousand. Here, there wasn't even a relatively thick vine between her and 
the nothingness below¢only Wookiee claws and the thin rope connecting them to another 
set of Wookiee claws. She wanted to say something¢to plead that they stop and at least 
belay the end of their rope to something solid¢but she was afraid to make even a sound 
lest it break Chewbacca's concentration. The sound of his breathing was like the roar of a 
waterfall in her ears, and she could feel the warm wetness of his blood seeping through 
the thin material of her undertunic. How badly had he been hurt? Huddled against him, 
listening to his heart pounding, she was afraid to ask.

 Abruptly, he stopped.

 She opened her eyes, unaware until that moment that she'd closed them. "What's 
wrong?" she asked, her voice trembling.

 [The enemy has found us,] Ralrra growled softly from beside her.

 Bracing herself, Leia turned her head as far as she could, searching the dark predawn 
gray behind them. There it was: a small patch of darker black set motionlessly against it. 
A repulsorlift airspeeder of some kind, staying well back out of bowcaster range. "It 
couldn't be a Wookiee rescue ship, I don't suppose," she offered hopefully.

 Chewbacca growled the obvious flaw: the airspeeder wasn't showing even running 
lights. [Yet it does not approach,] Ralrra pointed out.

 "They want me alive," Leia said, more to reassure herself than to remind them. "They 
don't want to spook us." She looked around, searching the void around them and the 
matted branches above them for inspiration.

 And found it. "I need the rest of the rope," she told Ralrra, peering back at the hovering 
airspeeder. "All of it."

 Steeling herself, she twisted partway around in her makeshift harness, taking the coil he 
gave her and tying one end securely to one of the smaller branches. Chewbacca growled 
an objection. "No, I'm not belaying us," she assured him. "So don't fall. I've got 
something else in mind. Okay, let's go."

 They set off again, perhaps a shade faster than before... and as she bounced along 
against Chewbacca's torso, Leia realized with mild surprise that while she was still 
frightened, she was no longer terrified. Perhaps, she decided, because she was no longer 
simply a pawn or excess baggage, with her fate totally in the hands of Wookiees or 
gray-skinned aliens or the forces of gravity.She was now at least partially in control of 
what happened.

 They continued on, Leia playing out the rope as they traveled. The dark airspeeder 
followed, still without lights, still keeping well back from them. She kept an eye on it as 
they bounced along, knowing that the timing and distance on this were going to be 
crucial. Just a little bit farther...

 There were perhaps three meters of rope left in the coil. Quickly, she tied a firm knot 
and peered back at their pursuer. "Get ready," she said to Chewbacca. "Now...stop ."

 Chewbacca came to a halt. Mentally crossing her fingers, Leia ignited her lightsaber 
beneath the Wookiee's back, locked it on, and let it drop.

 And like a blazing chunk of wayward lightning, it fell away, swinging down and back 
on the end of the rope in a long pendulum arc. It reached bottom and swung back up the 
other direction¢

 And into the underside of the airspeeder.

 There was a spectacular flash as the lightsaber blade sliced through the repulsorlift 
generator. An instant later the airspeeder was dropping like a stone, two separate blazes 
flaring from either side. The craft fell into the mists below, and for a long moment the 
fires were visible as first two, and then as a single diffuse spot of light. Then even that 
faded, leaving only the lightsaber swinging gently in the darkness.

 Leia took a shuddering breath. "Let's go retrieve the lightsaber," she told Chewbacca. 
"After that, I think we can probably just cut our way back up. I doubt there are any of 
them left now."

 [And then directly to yourr ship?] Ralrra asked as they headed back to the branch where 
she'd tied the rope.

 Leia hesitated, the image of that second alien in her room coming back to mind. 
Standing there facing her, an unreadable emotion in face and body language, so stunned 
or enraptured or frightened that he didn't even notice Chewbacca's entry... "Back to the 
ship," she answered Ralrra. "But not directly."

  

 The alien was sitting motionless in a low seat in the tiny police interrogation room, a 
small bandage on the side of his head the only external evidence of Chewbacca's blow. 
His hands were resting in his lap, the fingers laced intricately together. Stripped of all 
clothing and equipment, he'd been given a loose Wookiee robe to wear. On someone else 
the effect of the outsized garment might have been comical. But not on him. Neither the 
robe nor his inactivity did anything to hide the aura of deadly competence that he wore 
like a second skin. He was¢probably always would be¢a member of a dangerous and 
persistent group of trained killing machines.

 And he'd asked specifically to see Leia. In person.

 Towering beside her, Chewbacca growled one final objection. "I don't much like it 
either," Leia conceded, gazing at the monitor display and trying to screw up her courage. 
"But he let me go back at the house, before you came in. I want to know¢Ineed to 
know¢what that was all about."

 Briefly, her conversation with Luke on the eve of the Battle of Endor flashed to mind. 
His quiet firmness, in the face of all her fears, that confronting Darth Vader was 
something he had to do. That decision had nearly killed him... and had ultimately brought 
them victory.

 But Luke had felt some faint wisps of good still buried deep inside Vader. Did she feel 
something similar in this alien killer? Or was she driven merely by morbid curiosity?

 Or perhaps by mercy?

 "You can watch and listen from here," she told Chewbacca, handing him her blaster and 
stepping to the door. The lightsaber she left hooked onto her belt, though what use it 
would be in such close quarters she didn't know. "Don't come in unless I'm in trouble." 
Taking a deep breath, she unlocked the door and pressed the release.

 The alien looked up as the door slid open, and it seemed to Leia that he sat up straighter 
as she stepped inside. The door slid shut behind her, and for a long moment they just 
eyed each other. "I'm Leia Organa Solo," she said at last. "You wanted to talk to me?"

 He gazed at her for another moment. Then, slowly, he stood up and reached out a hand. 
"Your hand," he said, his voice gravelly and strangely accented. "May I have it?"

 Leia took a step forward and offered him her hand, acutely aware that she had just 
committed an irrevocable act of trust. From here, if he so chose, he could pull her to him 
and snap her neck before anyone outside could possibly intervene.

 He didn't pull her toward him. Leaning forward, holding her hand in an oddly gentle 
grip, he raised it to his snout and pressed it against two large nostrils half hidden beneath 
strands of hair.

 And smelled it.

 He smelled it again, and again, taking long, deep breaths. Leia found herself staring at 
his nostrils, noticing for the first time their size and the soft flexibility of the skin folds 
around them. Like those of a tracking animal, she realized. A memory flashed to mind: 
how, as he'd held her helpless back at the house, those same nostrils had been pressed 
into her neck.

 And right after that was when he'd let her go...

 Slowly, almost tenderly, the alien straightened up. "It is then true," he grated, releasing 
her hand and letting his own fall to his side. Those huge eyes stared at her, brimming 
with an emotion whose nature her Jedi skills could vaguely sense but couldn't begin to 
identify. "I was not mistaken before."

 Abruptly, he dropped to both knees. "I seek forgiveness, Leia Organa Solo, for my 
actions," he said, ducking his head to the floor, his hands splayed out to the sides as they 
had been in that encounter back at the house. "Our orders did not identify you, but gave 
only your name."

 "I understand," she nodded, wishing she did. "But now you know who I am?"

 The alien's face dropped a couple of centimeters closer to the floor. "You are 
theMal'ary'ush ," he said. "The daughter and heir of the Lord Darth Vader."

 "He who was our master."

 Leia stared down at him, feeling her mouth fall open as she struggled to regain her 
mental balance. The right-angle turns were all coming too quickly. "Your master?" she 
repeated carefully.

 "He who came to us in our desperate need," the alien said, his voice almost reverent. 
"Who lifted us from our despair, and gave us hope."

 "I see," she managed. This whole thing was rapidly becoming unreal... but one fact 
already stood out. The alien prostrating himself before her was prepared to treat her as 
royalty.

 And she knew how to behave like royalty.

 "You may rise," she told him, feeling her voice and posture and manner settling into the 
almost-forgotten patterns of the Alderaanian court. "What is your name?"

 "I am called Khabarakh by our lord," the alien said, getting to his feet. "In the language 
of the Noghri¢" He made a long, convoluted roiling noise that Leia's vocal cords didn't 
have a hope of imitating.

 "I'll call you Khabarakh," she said. "Your people are called the Noghri?"

 "Yes." The first hint of uncertainty seemed to cross the dark eyes. "But you are 
theMal'ary'ush ," he added, with obvious question.

 "My father had many secrets," she told him grimly. "You, obviously, were one of them. 
You said he brought you hope. Tell me how."

 "He came to us," the Noghri said. "After the mighty battle. After the destruction."

 "What battle?"

 Khabarakh's eyes seemed to drift into memory. "Two great starships met in the space 
over our world," he said, his gravelly voice low. "Perhaps more than two; we never knew 
for certain. They fought all the day and much of the night... and when the battle was over, 
our land was devastated."

 Leia winced, a pang of sympathetic ache running through her. Of ache, and of guilt. 
"We never hurt non-Imperial forces or worlds on purpose," she said softly. "Whatever 
happened, it was an accident."

 The dark eyes fixed again on her. "The Lord Vader did not think so. He believed it was 
done on purpose, to drive fear and terror into the souls of the Emperor's enemies."

 "Then the Lord Vader was mistaken," Leia said, meeting that gaze firmly. "Our battle 
was with the Emperor, not his subjugated servants."

 Khabarakh drew himself up stiffly. "We were not the Emperor's servants," he grated. 
"We were a simple people, content to live our lives without concern for the dealings of 
others."

 "You serve the Empire now," Leia pointed out.

 "In return for the Emperor's help," Khabarakh said, a hint of pride showing through his 
deference. "Only he came to our aid when we so desperately needed it. In his memory, 
we serve his designated heir¢the man to whom the Lord Vader long ago entrusted us."

 "I find it difficult to believe the Emperor ever really cared about you," Leia told him 
bluntly. "That's not the sort of man he was. All he cared about was obtaining your service 
against us."

 "Only he came to our aid," Khabarakh repeated.

 "Because we were unaware of your plight," Leia told him.

 "So you say."

 Leia raised her eyebrows. "Then give me a chance to prove it. Tell me where your world 
is."

 Khabarakh jerked back. "That is impossible. You would seek us out and complete the 
destruction¢"

 "Khabarakh," Leia cut him off. "Who am I?"

 The folds around the Noghri's nostrils seemed to flatten. "You are the Lady Vader. 
TheMal'ary'ush ."

 "Did the Lord Vader ever lie to you?"

 "You said he did."

 "I said he was mistaken," Leia reminded him, perspiration starting to collect beneath her 
collar as she recognized the knife edge she was now walking along here. Her newfound 
status with Khabarakh rested solely on the Noghri's reverence for Darth Vader. 
Somehow, she had to attack Vader's words without simultaneously damaging that 
respect. "Even the Lord Vader could be deceived... and the Emperor was a master of 
deception."

 "The Lord Vader served the Emperor," Khabarakh insisted. "The Emperor would not 
have lied to him."

 Leia gritted her teeth. Stalemate. "Is your new lord equally honest with you?"

 Khabarakh hesitated. "I don't know."

 "Yes, you do¢you said yourself he didn't tell you who it was you'd been sent to capture."

