toys; and now you know you can just walk into the mountain, with or without my help. 
Why are you still sitting here?"

 "Because the mountain is only part of what I need," Thrawn told him. "I also require the 
partnership of a Jedi Master like yourself."

 C'baoth settled back into his cushion, a cynical smile showing through his beard. "Ah, 
we finally get down to it. This, I take it, is where you offer me all the power even a Jedi 
Master could desire?"

 Thrawn smiled back. "It is indeed. Tell me, Master C'baoth: are you familiar with the 
Imperial Fleet's disastrous defeat at the Battle of Endor five years ago?"

 "I've heard rumors. One of the offworlders who came here spoke about it." C'baoth's 
gaze drifted to the window, to the palace/crypt visible across the square. "Though only 
briefly."

 Pellaeon swallowed. Thrawn himself didn't seem to notice the implication. "Then you 
must have wondered how a few dozen Rebel ships could possibly rout an Imperial force 
that outgunned it by at least ten to one."

 "I didn't spend much time with such wonderings," C'baoth said dryly. "I assumed that 
the Rebels were simply better warriors."

 "In a sense, that's true," Thrawn agreed. "The Rebels did indeed fight better, but not 
because of any special abilities or training. They fought better than the Fleet because the 
Emperor was dead."

 He turned to look at Pellaeon. "You were there, Captain¢you must have noticed it. The 
sudden loss of coordination between crew members and ships; the loss of efficiency and 
discipline. The loss, in short, of that elusive quality we call fighting spirit."

 "There was some confusion, yes," Pellaeon said stiffly. He was starting to see where 
Thrawn was going with this, and he didn't like it a bit. "But nothing that can't be 
explained by the normal stresses of battle."

 One blue-black eyebrow went up, just slightly. "Really? The loss of theExecutor ¢the 
sudden, last-minute TIE fighter incompetence that brought about the destruction of the 
Death Star itself¢the loss of six other Star Destroyers in engagements that none of them 
should have had trouble with?All of that nothing but normal battle stress?"

 "The Emperor was not directing the battle," Pellaeon snapped with a fire that startled 
him. "Not in any way. I was there, Admiral¢Iknow."

 "Yes, Captain, you were there," Thrawn said, his voice abruptly hard. "And it's time you 
gave up your blindfold and faced the truth, no matter how bitter you find it. You had no 
real fighting spirit of your own anymore¢none of you in the Imperial Fleet did. It was the 
Emperor's will that drove you; the Emperor's mind that provided you with strength and 
resolve and efficiency. You were as dependent on that presence as if you were all 
borg-implanted into a combat computer."

 "That's not true," Pellaeon shot back, stomach twisting painfully within him. "It can't be. 
We fought on after his death."

 "Yes," Thrawn said, his voice quiet and contemptuous. "You fought on. Like cadets."

 C'baoth snorted. "So isthis what you want me for, Grand Admiral Thrawn?" he asked 
scornfully. "To turn your ships into puppets for you?"

 "Not at all, Master C'baoth," Thrawn told him, his voice perfectly calm again. "My 
analogy with combat borg implants was a carefully considered one. The Emperor's fatal 
error was in seeking to control the entire Imperial Fleet personally, as completely and 
constantly as possible. That, over the long run, is what did the damage. My wish is 
merely to have you enhance the coordination between ships and task forces¢and then 
only at critical times and in carefully selected combat situations."

 C'baoth threw a look at Pellaeon. "To what end?" he rumbled.

 "To the end we've already discussed," Thrawn said. "Power."

 "What sort of power?"

 For the first time since landing, Thrawn seemed taken aback. "The conquering of 
worlds, of course. The final defeat of the Rebellion. The reestablishment of the glory that 
was once the Empire's New Order."

 C'baoth shook his head. "You don't understand power, Grand Admiral Thrawn. 
Conquering worlds you'll never even visit again isn't power. Neither is destroying ships 
and people and rebellions you haven't looked at face-to-face." He waved his hands in a 
sweeping gesture around him, his eyes glittering with an eerie fire. "This, Grand Admiral 
Thrawn, is power. This city¢this planet¢these people. Every human, Psadan, and 
Myneyrsh who live here are mine.Mine ." His gaze drifted to the window again. "I teach 
them. I command them. I punish them. Their lives, and their deaths, are inmy hand."

 "Which is precisely what I offer you," Thrawn said. "Millions of lives¢billions, if you 
wish. All those lives to do with as you please."

 "It isn't the same," C'baoth said, a note of paternal patience in his voice. "I have no 
desire to hold distant power over faceless lives."

 "You could have just a single city to rule, then," Thrawn persisted. "As large or as small 
as you wish."

 "I rule a city now."

 Thrawn's eyes narrowed. "I need your assistance, Master C'baoth. Name your price."

 C'baoth smiled. "My price? The price for my service?" Abruptly, the smile vanished. 
"I'm a Jedi Master, Grand Admiral Thrawn," he said, his voice simmering with menace. 
"Not a mercenary for hire like your Noghri."

 He threw a contemptuous look at Rukh, sitting silently off to one side. "Oh, yes, 
Noghri¢I know what you and your people are. The Emperor's private Death Commandos; 
killing and dying at the whim of ambitious men like Darth Vader and the Grand Admiral 
here."

 "Lord Vader served the Emperor and the Empire," Rukh grated, his dark eyes staring 
unblinkingly at C'baoth. "As do we."

 "Perhaps." C'baoth turned back to Thrawn. "I have all I want or need, Grand Admiral 
Thrawn. You will leave Wayland now."

 Thrawn didn't move. "I need your assistance, Master C'baoth," he repeated quietly. 
"And I will have it."

 "Or you'll do what?" C'baoth sneered. "Have your Noghri try to kill me? It would almost 
be amusing to watch." He looked at Pellaeon. "Or perhaps you'll have your brave Star 
Destroyer captain try to level my city from orbit. Except that you can't risk damaging the 
mountain, can you?"

 "My gunners could destroy this city without even singeing the grass onMountTantiss ," 
Pellaeon retorted. "If you need a demonstration¢"

 "Peace, Captain," Thrawn cut him off calmly. "So it's the personal, face-to-face sort of 
power you prefer, Master C'baoth? Yes, I can certainly understand that. Not that there can 
be much challenge left in it¢not anymore. Of course," he added reflectively, glancing out 
the window, "that may be the whole idea. I expect that even Jedi Masters eventually get 
too old to be interested in anything except to sit out in the sun."

 C'baoth's forehead darkened. "Have a care, Grand Admiral Thrawn," he warned. "Or 
perhaps I'll seek challenge in your destruction."

 "That would hardly be a challenge for a man of your skill and power," Thrawn 
countered with a shrug. "But then, you probably already have other Jedi here under your 
command."

 C'baoth frowned, obviously thrown by the sudden change in subject. "Other Jedi?" he 
echoed.

 "Of course. Surely it's only fitting that a Jedi Master have lesser Jedi serving beneath 
him. Jedi whom he may teach and command and punish at will."

 Something like a shadow crossed C'baoth's face. "There are no Jedi left," he murmured. 
"The Emperor and Vader hunted them down and destroyed them."

 "Not all of them," Thrawn told him softly. "Two new Jedi have arisen in the past five 
years: Luke Skywalker and his sister, Leia Organa Solo."

 "And what is that to me?"

 "I can deliver them to you."

 For a long minute C'baoth stared at him, disbelief and desire struggling for supremacy 
on his face. The desire won. "Both of them?"

 "Both of them," Thrawn nodded. "Consider what a man of your skill could do with 
brand-new Jedi. Mold them, change them, re-create them in any image you chose." He 
cocked an eyebrow. "And with them would come a very special bonus... because Leia 
Organa Solo is pregnant. With twins."

 C'baoth inhaled sharply. "Jeditwins?" he hissed.

 "They have the potential, or so my sources tell me." Thrawn smiled. "Of course, what 
they ultimately became would be entirely up to you."

 C'baoth's eyes darted to Pellaeon; back to Thrawn. Slowly, deliberately, he stood up. 
"Very well, Grand Admiral Thrawn," he said. "In return for the Jedi, I will assist your 
forces. Take me to your ship."

 "In time, Master C'baoth," Thrawn said, getting to his feet himself. "First we must go 
into the Emperor's mountain. This bargain is dependent on whether I find what I'm 
looking for there."

 "Of course." C'baoth's eyes flashed. "Let us both hope," he said warningly, "that you 
do."

 It took seven hours of searching, through a mountain fortress much larger than Pellaeon 
had expected. But in the end, they did indeed find the treasures Thrawn had hoped for. 
The cloaking shield... and that other small, almost trivial, bit of technology.

  

 The door to the Grand Admiral's command room slid open; settling himself, Pellaeon 
stepped inside. "A word with you, Admiral?"

 "Certainly, Captain," Thrawn said from his seat in the center of the double display 
circle. "Come in. Has there been any update from theImperialPalace ?"

 "No, sir, not since yesterday's," Pellaeon said as he walked to the edge of the outer 
circle, silently rehearsing one last time how he was going to say this. "I can request one, 
if you'd like."

 "Probably unnecessary," Thrawn shook his head. "It looks like the details of the 
Bimmisaari trip have been more or less settled. All we have to do is alert one of the 
commando groups¢Team Eight, I think¢and we'll have our Jedi."

 "Yes, sir." Pellaeon braced himself. "Admiral... I have to tell you that I'm not convinced 
dealing with C'baoth is a good idea. To be perfectly honest, I don't think he's entirely 
sane."

 Thrawn cocked an eyebrow. "Of course he's not sane. But then, he's not Jorus C'baoth, 
either."

 Pellaeon felt his mouth fall open. "What?"

 "Jorus C'baoth is dead," Thrawn said. "He was one of the six Jedi Masters aboard 
theOldRepublic 's Outbound Flight project. I don't know if you were highly enough 
placed back then to have known about it."

 "I heard rumors," Pellaeon frowned, thinking back. "Some sort of grand effort to extend 
theOldRepublic 's authority outside the galaxy, as I recall, launched just before the Clone 
Wars broke out. I never heard anything more about it."

 "That's because there wasn't anything more to be heard," Thrawn said evenly. "It was 
intercepted by a task force outsideOldRepublic space and destroyed."

 Pellaeon stared at him, a shiver running up his back. "How do you know?"

 Thrawn raised his eyebrows. "Because I was the force's commander. Even at that early 
date the Emperor recognized that the Jedi had to be exterminated. Six Jedi Masters 
aboard the same ship was too good an opportunity to pass up."

 Pellaeon licked his lips. "But then...?"

 "Who is it we've brought aboard theChimaera ?" Thrawn finished the question for him. 
"I should have thought that obvious. Joruus C'baoth¢note the telltale mispronunciation of 
the nameJorus ¢is a clone."

 Pellaeon stared at him. "Aclone ?"

 "Certainly," Thrawn said. "Created from a tissue sample, probably sometime just before 
the real C'baoth's death."

 "Early in the war, in other words," Pellaeon said, swallowing hard. The early clones¢or 
at least those the fleet had faced¢had been highly unstable, both mentally and 
emotionally. Sometimes spectacularly so... "And you deliberately brought this thing 
aboard my ship?" he demanded.

 "Would you rather we have brought back a full-fledged Dark Jedi?" Thrawn asked 
coldly. "A second Darth Vader, perhaps, with the sort of ambitions and power that might 
easily lead him to take over your ship? Count your blessings, Captain."

 "At least a Dark Jedi would have been predictable," Pellaeon countered.

 "C'baoth is predictable enough," Thrawn assured him. "And for those times when he 
isn't¢" He waved a hand at the half dozen frameworks encircling his command center. 
"That's what the ysalamiri are for."

 Pellaeon grimaced. "I still don't like it, Admiral. We can hardly protect the ship from 
him while at the same time having him coordinate the fleet's attacks."

 "There's a degree of risk involved," Thrawn agreed. "But risk has always been an 
inescapable part of warfare. In this case, the potential benefits far outweigh the potential 
dangers."

 Reluctantly, Pellaeon nodded. He didn't like it¢was fairly certain he would never like 
it¢but it was clear that Thrawn had made up his mind. "Yes, sir," he muttered. "You 
mentioned a message to Team Eight. Will you be wanting me to transmit that?"

 "No, I'll handle it myself." Thrawn smiled sardonically. "Their glorious leader, and all 
that¢you know how Noghri are. If there's nothing more...?"

 It was, clearly, a dismissal. "No, sir," Pellaeon said. "I'll be on the bridge if you require 
me." He turned to go.

 "It will bring us victory, Captain," the Grand Admiral called softly after him. "Quiet 
your fears, and concentrate on that."

 If it doesn't kill us all."Yes, sir," Pellaeon said aloud, and left the room.

  

 Chapter 5

 Han finished his report, sat back, and waited for the criticism to start.

 It was a very short wait. "So once again your smuggler friends refuse to commit 
themselves," Admiral Ackbar said, sounding more than a little disgusted. His high-domed 
head bobbed twice in some indecipherable Calamarian gesture, his huge eyes blinking in 
time with the head movements. "You'll recall that I disagreed with this idea all along," he 
added, waving a webbed hand toward Han's report case.

 Han glanced across the table at Leia. "It's not a matter of commitment, Admiral," he told 
the other. "It's a matter that most of them just don't see any real gain in switching from 
their current activities to straight shipping."

 "Or else it's a lack of trust," a melodic alien voice put in. "Could that be it?"

 Han grimaced before he could stop himself. "It's possible," he said, forcing himself to 
look at Borsk Fey'lya.

 "Possible?" Fey'lya's violet eyes widened, the fine cream-colored fur covering his body 
rippling slightly with the motion. It was a Bothan gesture of polite surprise, one which 
Fey'lya seemed to use a lot. "You saidpossible , Captain Solo?"

 Han sighed quietly and gave up. Fey'lya would only maneuver him into saying it some 
other way if he didn't. "Some of the groups I've talked to don't trust us," he conceded. 
"They think the offer might be some sort of trap to bring them out into the open."

 "Because of me, of course," Ackbar growled, his normal salmon color turning a little 
darker. "Haven't you tired of retaking this same territory, Councilor Fey'lya?"

 Fey'lya's eyes widened again, and for a moment he gazed silently at Ackbar as the 
tension around the table quickly rose to the level of thick paste. They had never liked 
each other, Han knew, not from the day Fey'lya had first brought his sizable faction of the 
Bothan race into theAlliance after the Battle of Yavin. Right from the start Fey'lya had 
been jockeying for position and power, cutting deals wherever and whenever he could 
and making it abundantly clear that he expected to be given a high position in the 
fledgling political system Mon Mothma was putting together. Ackbar had considered 
such ambitions to be a dangerous waste of time and effort, particularly given the bleak 
situation theAlliance was facing at the time, and with typical bluntness had made no 
effort to conceal that opinion.

 Given Ackbar's reputation and subsequent successes, Han had little doubt that Fey'lya 
would ultimately have been shunted off to some relatively unimportant government post 
in theNewRepublic ... if it hadn't happened that the spies who discovered the existence 
and location of the Emperor's new Death Star had been a group of Fey'lya's Bothans.

 Preoccupied at the time with more urgent matters, Han had never learned the details of 
how Fey'lya had managed to parlay that serendipity into his current position on the 
Council. And to be perfectly honest, he wasn't sure he wanted to.

 "I merely seek to clarify the situation in my own mind, Admiral," Fey'lya said at last 
into the heavy silence. "It's hardly worthwhile for us to continue sending a valuable man 
like Captain Solo out on these contact missions if each is predoomed to failure."

 "They'renot predoomed to failure," Han cut in. Out of the corner of his eye he saw Leia 
give him a warning look. He ignored it. "The kind of smugglers we're looking for are 
conservative businesspeople¢they don't just jump into something new without thinking it 
through first. They'll come around."

 Fey'lya shrugged, his fur again rippling. "And meanwhile, we expend a great deal of 
time and effort with nothing to show for it."

 "Look, you can't build up any¢"

 A gentle, almost diffident tap of a hammer from the head of the table cut off the 
argument. "What the smugglers are waiting for," Mon Mothma said quietly, her stern 
gaze touching each of the others at the table in turn, "is the same thing the rest of the 
galaxy is waiting for: the formal reestablishment of the principals and law of 
theOldRepublic .That is our first and primary task, Councilors. To become 
theNewRepublic in fact as well as in name."

 Han caught Leia's eye, and this time he was the one who sent out the warning look. She 
grimaced, but nodded slightly and kept quiet.

 Mon Mothma let the silence linger a moment longer, again sending her gaze around the 
table. Han found himself studying her, noting the deepening lines in her face, the streaks 
of gray in her dark hair, the thinness rather than slenderness of her neck. She'd aged a lot 
since he'd first met her, back when theAlliance was trying to find a way out from under 
the shadow of the Empire's second Death Star. Ever since then, Mon Mothma had been 
right in the middle of this horrendous task of setting up a viable government, and the 
strain had clearly told on her.

 But despite what the years were doing to her face, her eyes still held the same quiet fire 
they'd possessed then¢the same fire, or so the stories went, that had been there since her 
historic break with the Emperor's New Order and her founding of the Rebel Alliance. She 
was tough, and smart, and fully in control. And everyone present knew it.

 Her eyes finished their sweep and came to rest on Han. "Captain Solo, we thank you for 
your report; and, too, for your efforts. And with the Captain's report, this meeting is 
adjourned."

 She tapped the hammer again and stood up. Han closed his report case and worked his 
way through the general confusion around to the other side of the table. "So," he said 
quietly, coming up behind Leia as she collected her own things. "Are we out of here?"

 "The sooner the better," she muttered back. "I just have to give these things to Winter."

 Han glanced around and lowered his voice a notch. "I take it things were going a little 
rough before they called me in?"

 "No more than usual," she told him. "Fey'lya and Ackbar had one of their polite little 
dogfights, this one over the fiasco at Obroa-skai¢that lost Elomin force¢with some more 
of Fey'lya's veiled suggestions that the job of Commander in Chief is too much for 
Ackbar to handle. And then, of course, Mon Mothma¢"

 "A word with you, Leia?" Mon Mothma's voice came from over Han's shoulder.

 Han turned to face her, sensing Leia tense a little beside him as she did likewise. "Yes?"

 "I forgot to ask you earlier if you'd talked to Luke about going with you to Bimmisaari," 
Mon Mothma said. "Did he agree?"

 "Yes," Leia nodded, throwing an apologetic look at Han. "I'm sorry, Han; I didn't get a 
chance to tell you. The Bimms sent a message yesterday asking that Luke be there with 
me for the talks."

 "They did, huh?" A year ago, Han reflected, he would probably have been furious at 
having a painstakingly crafted schedule flipped at the last minute like this. Leia's 
diplomatic patience must be starting to rub off on him.

 Either that, or he was just getting soft. "They give any reasons?"

 "The Bimms are rather hero-oriented," Mon Mothma said before Leia could answer, her 
eyes searching Han's face. Probably trying to figure out just how mad he was about the 
change in plans. "And Luke's part in the Battle of Endoris rather well known."

 "Yeah, I'd heard that," Han said, trying not to be too sarcastic. He had no particular 
quarrel with Luke's position in theNewRepublic 's pantheon of heroes¢the kid had 
certainly earned it. But if having Jedi around to brag about was so important to Mon 
Mothma, then she ought to be letting Leia get on with her own studies instead of foisting 
all this extra diplomatic work on her. As it was, he would bet on an ambitious snail to 
make full Jedi before she did.

 Leia found his hand, squeezed it. He squeezed back, to show that he wasn't mad. 
Though she probably already knew that. "We'd better get going," she told Mon Mothma, 
using her grip on Han's hand to start steering him away from the table. "We still have to 
collect our droids before we leave."

 "Have a good trip," Mon Mothma said gravely. "And good luck."

 "The droids are already on theFalcon ," Han told Leia as they wove their way around 
the various conversations that had sprung up between the Councilors and staff members. 
"Chewie got them aboard while I came here."

 "I know," Leia murmured.

 "Right," Han said, and left it at that.

 She squeezed his hand again. "It'll be all right, Han. You, me, and Luke together 
again¢it'll be just like old times."

 "Sure," Han said. Sitting around with a group of half-furred, half-size aliens, listening to 
Threepio's precise voice all day as he translated back and forth, trying to penetrate yet 
another alien psychology to figure out what exactly it would take to get them to join the 
New Republic¢ "Sure," he repeated with a sigh. "Just exactly like old times."

  

 Chapter 6

 The waving alien trees shied back like some sort of huge tentacles from the landing 
area, and with the barest of bumps Han set theMillennium Falcon down on the uneven 
ground. "Well, here we are," he announced to no one in particular. "Bimmisaari. Fur and 
moving plants a specialty."

 "None of that," Leia warned him, unstrapping from the seat behind him and running 
through the Jedi relaxation techniques Luke had taught her. Political dealings with people 
she knew were relatively easy for her. Diplomatic missions with unfamiliar alien races 
were something else entirely.

 "You'll do fine," Luke said from beside her, reaching over to squeeze her arm.

 Han half turned. "I wish you two wouldn't do that," he complained. "It's like listening to 
half a conversation."

 "Sorry," Luke apologized, climbing out of his seat and stooping to peer out theFalcon 's 
nose window. "Looks like our reception committee coming. I'll go get Threepio ready."

 "We'll be there in a minute," Leia called after him. "You ready, Han?"

 "Yeah," Han told her, adjusting his blaster in its holster. "Last chance to change your 
mind, Chewie."

 Leia strained her ears as Chewbacca growled out a curt reply. Even after all these years 
she still couldn't understand him nearly as well as Han could¢some subtle level of 
harmonics in the Wookiee's voice, apparently, that she had trouble picking up.

 But if some of the words were less than distinct, the overall meaning came through 
crystal clear. "Oh, come on," Han urged. "You've been fawned over before¢remember 
that big awards thing back at the Yavin base? I didn't hear you complainingthen ."

 "It's all right, Han," Leia put in over Chewbacca's response. "If he wants to stay aboard 
with Artoo and work on the stabilizers, that's fine. The Bimms won't be offended."

 Han looked out the nose window at the approaching delegation. "I wasn't worried about 
offending them," he muttered. "I just thought it'd be nice to have a little extra backup 
along. Just in case."

 Leia smiled and patted his arm. "The Bimms are very friendly people," she assured him. 
"There won't be any trouble."

 "I've heardthat before," Han said dryly, pulling a comlink from a small storage 
compartment beside his seat. He started to clip it to his belt; changed direction in 
midmotion and fastened it to his collar instead.

 "Looks good there," Leia said. "Are you going to put your old general's insignia on your 
belt now?"

 He made a face at her. "Very funny. With the comlink here, all I have to do is casually 
switch it on and I'll be able to talk to Chewie without being obvious about it."

 "Ah," Leia nodded. Itwas a good idea, at that. "Sounds like you've been spending too 
much time with Lieutenant Page and his commandos."

 "I've been spending too much time sitting in on Council meetings," he countered, sliding 
out of his seat and standing up. "After four years of watching political infighting, you 
learn the occasional value of subtlety. Come on, Chewie¢we'll need you to lock up 
behind us."

 Luke and Threepio were waiting when they got to the hatchway. "Ready?" Luke asked.

 "Ready," Leia said, taking a deep breath. With a hiss of released airseal the hatchway 
opened, and together they walked down the ramp to where the yellow-clad, half-furred 
creatures waited.

 The arrival ceremony was short and, for the most part, unintelligible, though Threepio 
did his best to keep up a running translation of the five-part harmony the whole thing 
seemed to have been written in. The song/welcome ended and two of the Bimms stepped 
forward, one of them continuing the melody while the other held up a small electronic 
device. "He offers greetings to Distinguished Visitor Councilor Leia Organa Solo," 
Threepio said, "and hopes your discussions with the Law Elders will be fruitful. He also 
requests that Captain Solo return his weapon to the ship."

 The droid said it so matter-of-factly that it took a second for the words to penetrate. 
"What was that last?" Leia asked.

 "Captain Solo must leave his weapon aboard the ship," Threepio repeated. "Weapons of 
violence are not permitted within the city. There are no exceptions."

 "Terrific," Han murmured into her ear. "You didn't tell me this one was coming."

 "I didn'tknow this one was coming," Leia countered quietly, giving the two Bimms a 
reassuring smile. "Doesn't look like we've got any choice."

 "Diplomacy," Han growled, making a curse out of the word. Unfastening his gun belt, 
he wrapped it carefully around the holstered blaster and set the package up inside the 
hatchway. "Happy?"

 "Aren't I always?" Leia nodded to Threepio. "Tell them we're ready."

 The droid translated. Stepping aside, the two Bimms gestured back the way they'd 
come.

 They were perhaps twenty meters from theFalcon , with the sounds of Chewbacca 
sealing the hatchway coming from behind them, when something abruptly occurred to 
Leia. "Luke?" she murmured.

 "Yes, I know," he murmured back. "Maybe they figure it's just part of the proper Jedi's 
outfit."

 "Or else their weapons detector doesn't read lightsabers," Han put in quietly from Leia's 
other side. "Either way, what they don't know won't hurt them."

 "I hope so," Leia said, forcing down her reflexive diplomatic misgivings. After all, if the 
Bimms themselves hadn't objected to it... "Good skies, would you look at that crowd?"

 They were waiting where the path exited the trees¢hundreds of Bimms, standing 
perhaps twenty deep on both sides of the way, all clothed in the same tooled yellow. The 
official reception committee shifted to single file and started down the gauntlet without 
giving the crowd a second glance; bracing herself, Leia followed.

 It was a little strange, but not nearly as uncomfortable as she'd feared it would be. Each 
Bimm reached out a hand as she passed, touching her with a feathery lightness on 
shoulder or head or arm or back. It was all done in complete silence, and complete order, 
with the aura of perfect civilization about it.

 Still, she was glad that Chewbacca had decided not to come. He hated¢rather 
