high up, Luke decided, the forest looked rather pleasant. "You know, I never did find out 
what planet this was," he commented.

 "It's called Myrkr," Han told him. "AndI just found out this morning. I think Karrde 
must have already decided to abandon the place, even before the battle¢he had real tight 
security around it when Lando and I first got here."

 A few minutes later a light flashed on the control board: theFalcon was far enough out 
of Myrkr's gravity well for the hyperdrive to function. "Good," Han nodded at it. 
"Course's already programmed in; let's get out of here." He wrapped his hand around the 
central levers and pulled; and with a burst of starlines, they were off.

 "Where are we going?" Luke asked as the starlines faded into the familiar mottled sky. 
"Coruscant?"

 "A little side trip first," Han said. "I want to swing by the Sluis Van shipyards, see if we 
can get Lando and your X-wing fixed up."

 Luke threw him a sideways glance. "And maybe find a Star Cruiser to borrow for 
Karrde?"

 "Maybe," Han said, a little defensively. "I mean, Ackbar's got a bunch of stripped-down 
warships ferrying stuff to the Sluis sector already. No reason why we can't borrow one of 
them for a couple of days, is there?"

 "Probably not," Luke conceded with a sigh. Suddenly, it felt really good to just sit back 
and do nothing. "I suppose Coruscant can do without us for a few more days."

 "I hope so," Han said, his voice abruptly grim. "But something's about to happen back 
there. If it hasn't happened already."

 And his sense was as grim as his words. "Maybe we shouldn't bother with Sluis Van, 
then," Luke suggested, feeling a sympathetic shiver. "Lando's hurting, but he's not in any 
danger."

 Han shook his head. "No. I want to get him taken care of¢andyou , buddy, need some 
downtime, too," he added, glancing at Luke. "I just wanted you to know that when we hit 
Coruscant, we're going to hit it running. So enjoy Sluis Van while you can. It'll probably 
be the last peace and quiet you'll get for a while."

  

 In the blackness of deep space, three-thousandths of a light-year out from the Sluis Van 
shipyards, the task force assembled for battle.

 "TheJudicator has just reported in, Captain," the communications officer told Pellaeon. 
"They confirm battle ready, and request order update."

 "Inform Captain Brandei that there have been no changes," Pellaeon told him, standing 
at the starboard viewport and gazing out at the shadowy shapes gathered around 
theChimaera , all but the closest identifiable only by the distinctive patterns of their 
running lights. It was an impressive task force, one worthy of the old days: five Imperial 
Star Destroyers, twelveStrike -class cruisers, twenty-two of the oldCarrack -class light 
cruisers, and thirty full squadrons of TIE fighters standing ready in their hangar bays.

 And riding there in the middle of all that awesome firepower, like someone's twisted 
idea of a joke, sat the battered old A-class bulk freighter.

 The key to this whole operation.

 "Status, Captain?" Thrawn's voice came quietly from behind him.

 Pellaeon turned to face the Grand Admiral. "All ships are on line, sir," he reported. "The 
freighter's cloaking shield has been checked out and primed; all TIE fighters are prepped 
and manned. I think we're ready."

 Thrawn nodded, his glowing eyes sweeping the field of running lights around them. 
"Excellent," he murmured. "What word from Myrkr?"

 The question threw Pellaeon off stride¢he hadn't thought about Myrkr for days. "I don't 
know, Admiral," he confessed, looking over Thrawn's shoulder at the communications 
officer. "Lieutenant¢the last report from the Myrkr landing force?"

 The other was already calling up the record. "It was a routine report, sir," he said. "Time 
log... fourteen hours ten minutes ago."

 Thrawn turned to face him. "Fourteen hours?" he repeated, his voice suddenly very quiet 
and very deadly. "I left orders for them to report every twelve."

 "Yes, Admiral," the comm man said, starting to look a little nervous. "I have that order 
logged, right here on their file. They must have..." He trailed off, looking helplessly at 
Pellaeon.

 They must have forgotten to report in,was Pellaeon's first, hopeful reaction. But it died 
stillborn. Stormtroopers didn't forget such things. Ever. "Perhaps they're having trouble 
with their transmitter," he suggested hesitantly.

 For a handful of heartbeats Thrawn just stood there, silent. "No," he said at last. 
"They've been taken. Skywalker was indeed there."

 Pellaeon hesitated, shook his head. "I can't believe that, sir," he said. "Skywalker 
couldn't have taken all of them. Not with all those ysalamiri blocking his Jedi power."

 Thrawn turned those glittering eyes back on Pellaeon. "I agree," he said coldly. 
"Obviously, he had help."

 Pellaeon forced himself to meet that gaze. "Karrde?"

 "Who else was there?" Thrawn countered. "So much for his protestations of neutrality."

 Pellaeon glanced at the status board. "Perhaps we should send someone to investigate. 
We could probably spare a Strike Cruiser; maybe even theStormhawk ."

 Thrawn took a deep breath, let it out slowly. "No," he said, his voice steady and 
controlled again. "The Sluis Van operation is our primary concern at the moment¢and 
battles have been lost before on the presence or absence of a single ship. Karrde and his 
betrayal will keep for later."

 He turned back to the communications officer. "Signal the freighter," he ordered. "Have 
them activate the cloaking shield."

 "Yes, sir."

 Pellaeon turned back to the viewport. The freighter, bathed in theChimera 's lights, just 
sat there looking innocent. "Cloaking shield on, Admiral," the comm man reported.

 Thrawn nodded. "Order them to proceed."

 "Yes, sir." Moving rather sluggishly, the freighter maneuvered past theChimaera , 
oriented itself toward the distant sun of the Sluis Van system, and with a flicker of 
pseudovelocity jumped to lightspeed.

 "Time mark," Thrawn ordered.

 "Time marked," one of the deck officers acknowledged.

 Thrawn looked at Pellaeon. "Is my flagship ready, Captain?" he asked the formal 
question.

 "TheChimaera is fully at your command, Admiral," Pellaeon gave the formal answer.

 "Good. We follow the freighter in exactly six hours twenty minutes. I want a final check 
from all ships... and I want you to remind them one last time that our task is only to 
engage and pin down the system's defenses. There are to be no special heroics or risks 
taken. Make that clearly understood, Captain. We're here to gain ships, not lose them."

 "Yes, sir." Pellaeon started toward his command station¢

 "And Captain...?"

 "Yes, Admiral?"

 There was a tight smile on Thrawn's face. "Remind them, too," he added softly, "that 
our final victory over the Rebellion begins here."

  

 Chapter 31

 Captain Afyon of the Escort FrigateLarkhess shook his head with thinly disguised 
contempt, glaring at Wedge from the depths of his pilot's seat. "You X-wing hotshots," he 
growled. "You've really got it made¢you know that?"

 Wedge shrugged, trying hard not to take offense. It wasn't easy; but then, he'd had lots 
of practice in the past few days. Afyon had started out from Coruscant with a 
planetary-mass chip on his shoulder, and he'd been nursing it the whole way.

 And looking out the viewport at the confused mass of ships crowding the Sluis Van 
orbit-dock area, it wasn't hard to figure out why. "Yeah, well, we're stuck out here, too," 
he reminded the captain.

 The other snorted. "Yeah. Big sacrifice. You lounge around my ship like overpriced 
trampers for a couple of days, then flit around for two hours while I try to dodge bulk 
freighters and get this thing into a docking station designed for scavenger pickers. And 
then you pull your snubbies back inside and go back to lounging again. Doesn't exactly 
qualify as earning your pay, in my book."

 Wedge clamped his teeth firmly around his tongue and stirred his tea a little harder. It 
was considered bad form to mouth back at senior officers, after all¢even senior officers 
who'd long since passed their prime. For probably the first time since he had been given 
command of Rogue Squadron, he regretted having passed up all the rest of the 
promotions he'd been offered. A higher rank would at least have entitled him to snarl 
back a little.

 Lifting his cup for a cautious sip, he gazed out the viewport at the scene around them. 
No, he amended¢he wasn't sorry at all that he'd stayed with his X-wing. If he hadn't, he'd 
probably be in exactly the same position as Afyon was right now: trying to run a 
920-crew ship with just fifteen men, hauling cargo in a ship meant for war.

 And, like as not, having to put up with hotshot X-wing pilots who sat around his bridge 
drinking tea and claiming with perfect justification that they were doing exactly what 
they'd been ordered to do.

 He hid a smile behind his mug. Yes, in Afyon's place, he'd probably be ready to spit 
bulkhead shavings, too. Maybe he ought to go ahead and let the other drag him into an 
argument, in fact, let him drain off some of that excess nervous energy of his. 
Eventually¢within the hour, even, if Sluis Control's latest departure estimate was 
anywhere close¢it would finally be theLarkhess 's turn to get out of here and head for 
Bpfassh. It would be nice, when that time came, for Afyon to be calm enough to handle 
the ship.

 Taking another sip of his tea, Wedge looked out the viewport. A couple of refitted 
passenger liners were making their own break for freedom now, he saw, accompanied by 
four Corellian Corvettes. Beyond them, just visible in the faint light of the space-lane 
marker buoys, was what looked like one of the slightly ovoid transports he used to escort 
during the height of the war, with a pair of B-wings following.

 And off to the side, moving parallel to their departure vector, an A-class bulk freighter 
was coming into the docking pattern.

 Without any escort at all.

 Wedge watched it creep toward them, his smile fading as old combat senses began to 
tingle. Swiveling around in his seat, he reached over to the console beside him and 
punched for a sensor scan.

 It looked innocent enough. An older freighter, probably a knockoff of the original 
Corellian Action IV design, with the kind of exterior that came from either a lifetime of 
honest work or else a short and spectacularly unsuccessful career of piracy. Its cargo bay 
registered completely empty, and there were no weapons emplacements that theLarkhess 
's sensors could pick up.

 A totally empty freighter. How long had it been, he wondered uneasily, since he'd run 
across a totally empty freighter?

 "Trouble?"

 Wedge focused on the captain in mild surprise. The other's frustrated anger of a minute 
ago was gone, replaced by something calm, alert, and battle-ready. Perhaps, the thought 
strayed through Wedge's mind, Afyon wasn't past his prime after all. "That incoming 
freighter," he told the other, setting his cup down on the edge of the console and keying 
for a comm channel. "There's something about it that doesn't feel right."

 The captain peered out the viewport, then at the sensor scan data Wedge had pulled up. 
"I don't see anything," he said.

 "Me, either," Wedge had to admit. "There's just something... Blast."

 "What?"

 "Control won't let me in," Wedge told him as he keyed off. "Too much traffic on the 
circuits already, they say."

 "Allow me." Afyon turned to his own console. The freighter was shifting course now, 
the kind of slow and careful maneuver that usually indicated a full load. But the cargo 
bay was still registering empty...

 "There we go," Afyon said, glancing at Wedge with grim satisfaction. "I've got a tap 
into their records computer. Little trick you never learn flitting around in an X-wing. 
Let's see now... freighterNartissteu , out of Nellac Kram. They were jumped by pirates, 
got their main drive damaged in the fight, and had to dump their cargo to get away. 
They're hoping to get some repair work done; Sluis Control's basically told them to get in 
line."

 "I thought all this relief shipping had more or less taken over the whole place," Wedge 
frowned.

 Afyon shrugged. "Theoretically. In practice... well, the Sluissi are easy enough to talk 
into bending that kind of rule. You just have to know how to phrase the request."

 Reluctantly, Wedge nodded. Itdid all seem reasonable enough, he supposed. And a 
damaged, empty ship would probably handle something like an intact full one. And the 
freighterwas empty¢theLarkhess 's sensors said so.

 But the tingles refused to go away.

 Abruptly, he dug his comlink from his belt. "Rogue Squadron, this is Rogue Leader," he 
called. "Everyone to your ships."

 He got acknowledgments, looked up to find Afyon's eyes steady on him. "You still think 
there's trouble?" the other asked quietly.

 Wedge grimaced, throwing one last look out the viewport at the freighter. "Probably 
not. But it won't hurt to be ready. Anyway, I can't have my pilots sitting around drinking 
tea all day." He turned and left the bridge at a quick jog.

 The other eleven members of Rogue Squadron were in their X-wings by the time he 
reached theLarkhess 's docking bay. Three minutes later, they launched.

 The freighter hadn't made much headway, Wedge saw as they swung up over 
theLarkhess 's hull and pulled together into a loose patrol formation. Oddly enough, 
though, it had moved a considerable distance laterally, drifting away from theLarkhess 
and toward a pair of Calamari Star Cruisers orbiting together a few kilometers away. 
"Spread out formation," Wedge ordered his pilots, shifting to an asymptotic approach 
course. "Let's swing by and take a nice, casual little look."

 The others acknowledged. Wedge glanced down at his nav scope, made a minor 
adjustment to his speed, looked back up again¢

 And in the space of a single heartbeat, the whole thing went straight to hell.

 The freighter blew up. All at once, without any warning from sensors, without any hint 
from previous visual observation, it just came apart.

 Reflexively, Wedge jabbed for his comm control. "Emergency!" he barked. "Ship 
explosion near orbit-dock V-475. Send rescue team."

 For an instant, as chunks of the cargo bay flew outward, he could see into the emptiness 
there... but even as his eyes and brain registered the odd fact that he could seeinto the 
disintegrating cargo bay but notbeyond it¢

 The bay was suddenly no longer empty.

 One of the X-wing pilots gasped. A tight-packed mass of something was in there, totally 
filling the space where theLarkhess 's sensors had read nothing. A mass that was even 
now exploding outward like a hornet's nest behind the pieces of the bay.

 A mass that in seconds had resolved itself into a boiling wave front of TIE fighters.

 "Pull up!" Wedge snapped to his squadron, leaning his X-wing into a tight turn to get 
out of the path of that deadly surge. "Come around and re-form; S-foils in attack 
position."

 And as they swung around in response, he knew with a sinking feeling that Captain 
Afyon had been wrong. Rogue Squadron was indeed going to earn its pay today.

 The battle for Sluis Van had begun.

  

 They'd cleared the outer system defense network and the bureaucratic overload that 
passed for Control at Sluis Van these days, and Han was just getting a bearing on the slot 
they'd given him when the emergency call came through. "Luke!" he shouted back down 
the cockpit corridor. "Got a ship explosion. I'm going to go check it out." He glanced at 
the orbit-dock map to locate V-475, gave the ship a fractional turn to put them on the 
right vector¢

 And jerked in his seat as a laser bolt slapped theFalcon hard from behind.

 He had them gunning into a full forward evasive maneuver before the second shot went 
sizzling past the cockpit. Over the roar of the engines he heard Luke's startled-sounding 
yelp; and as the third bolt went past he finally had a chance to check the aft sensors to see 
just what was going on.

 He almost wished he hadn't. Directly behind them, batteries already engaging one of the 
Sluis Van perimeter battle stations, was an Imperial Star Destroyer.

 He swore under his breath and kicked the engines a little harder. Beside him, Luke 
clawed his way forward against the not-quite-compensated acceleration and into the 
copilot's seat. "What's going on?" he asked.

 "We just walked into an Imperial attack," Han growled, eyes flying over the readouts. 
"Got a Star Destroyer behind us¢there's another one over to starboard¢looks like some 
other ships with them."

 "They've got the system bottled up," Luke said, his voice glacially calm. A far cry, Han 
thought, from the panicky kid he'd pulled off Tatooine out from under Star Destroyer fire 
all those years back. "I make it five Star Destroyers and something over twenty smaller 
ships."

 Han grunted. "At least we know now why they hit Bpfassh and the others. Wanted to 
pull enough ships here to make an attack worth their while."

 The words were barely out of his mouth when the emergency comm channel suddenly 
came to life again. "Emergency! Imperial TIE fighters in orbit-dock area. All ships to 
battle stations."

 Luke started. "That sounded like Wedge," he said, punching for transmission. "Wedge? 
That you?"

 "Luke?" the other came back. "We got trouble here¢at least forty TIE fighters and fifty 
truncated-cone-shaped things I've never seen before¢"

 He broke off as a screech from the X-wing's etheric rudder came faintly over the 
speaker. "I hope you've brought a couple wings of fighters with you," he said. "We're 
going to be a little pressed here."

 Luke glanced at Han. "Afraid it's just Han and me and theFalcon . But we're on our 
way."

 "Make it fast."

 Luke keyed off the speaker. "Is there any way to get me into my X-wing?" he asked.

 "Not fast enough," Han shook his head. "We're going to have to drop it here and go in 
alone."

 Luke nodded, getting out of his seat. "I'd better make sure Lando and the droids are 
strapped in and then get up into the gun well."

 "Take the top one," Han called after him. The upper deflector shields were running 
stronger at the moment, and Luke would have more protection there.

 If there was any protection to be had from forty TIE fighters and fifty truncated flying 
cones.

 For a moment he frowned as a strange thought suddenly struck him. But no. They 
couldn't possibly be Lando's missing mole miners. Even a Grand Admiral wouldn't be 
crazy enough to try to use something likethat in battle.

 Boosting power to the forward deflectors, he took a deep breath and headed in.

  

 "All ships, commence attack," Pellaeon called. "Full engagement; maintain position and 
status."

 He got confirmations, turned to Thrawn. "All ships report engaged, sir," he said.

 But the Grand Admiral didn't seem to hear him. He just stood there at the viewport, 
gazing outward at the New Republic ships scrambling to meet them, his hands gripped 
tightly behind his back. "Admiral?" Pellaeon asked cautiously.

 "That was them, Captain," Thrawn said, his voice unreadable. "That ship straight ahead. 
That was theMillennium Falcon . And it was towing an X-wing starfighter behind it."

 Pellaeon frowned past the other. The glow of a drive was indeed barely visible past the 
flashing laser bolts of the battle, already pretty well out of combat range and trying hard 
to be even more so. But as to the design of the craft, much less its identity... "Yes, sir," he 
said, keeping his tone neutral. "Cloak Leader reports a successful breakout, and that the 
command section of the freighter is making its escape to the periphery. They're 
encountering some resistance from escort vehicles and a squadron of X-wings, but the 
general response has so far been weak and diffuse."

 Thrawn took a deep breath and turned away from viewport. "That will change," he told 
Pellaeon, back in control again. "Remind him not to push his envelope too far, or to waste 
excessive time in choosing his targets. Also that the spacetrooper mole miners should 
concentrate on Calamari Star Cruisers¢they're likely to have the largest number of 
defenders aboard." The red eyes glittered. "And inform him that theMillennium Falcon is 
on its way in."

 "Yes, sir," Pellaeon said. He glanced out the viewport again, at the distant fleeing ship. 
Towing an X-wing...? "You don't think... Skywalker?"

 Thrawn's face hardened. "We'll know soon," he said quietly. "And if so, Talon Karrde 
will have a great deal to answer for. Agreat deal."

  

 "Watch it, Rogue Five," Wedge warned as a flash of laser fire from somewhere behind 
him shot past and nicked the wing of one of the X-wings ahead. "We've picked up a tail."

 "I noticed," the other came back. "Pincer?"

 "On my mark," Wedge confirmed as a second bolt shot past him. Directly ahead, a 
Calamari Star Cruiser was pulling sluggishly away, trying to get out of the battle zone. 
Perfect cover for this kind of maneuver. Together, he and Rogue Five dived underneath 
it¢

 "Now."Leaning hard on his etheric rudder, he peeled off hard to the right. Rogue Five 
did the same thing to the left. The pursuing TIE fighter hesitated between his diverging 
targets a split second too long; and even as he swung around to follow Wedge, Rogue 
Five blew him out of the sky.

 "Nice shooting," Wedge said, giving the area a quick scan. The TIE fighters still seemed 
to be everywhere, but for the moment, at least, none of them was close enough to give 
them any trouble.

 Five noticed that, too. "We seem to be out of it, Rogue Leader," he commented.

 "Easy enough to fix," Wedge told him. His momentum was taking him farther under the 
Star Cruiser they'd used for cover. Curving up and around it, he started to spiral back 
toward the main battle area.

 He was just swinging up along the Star Cruiser's side when he noticed the small 
cone-shaped thing nestled up against the larger ship's hull.

 He craned his neck for a better look as he shot past. It was one of the little craft that had 
come out with the TIE fighters, all right. Sitting pressed up against the Star Cruiser's 
bridge blister as if it were welded in place.

 There was a battle going on nearby, a battle in which his people were fighting and very 
possibly dying. But something told Wedge that this was important. "Hang on a minute," 
he told Five. "I want to check this out."

 His momentum had already taken him to the Star Cruiser's bow. He curved around in 
front of the ship, leaning back into a spiral again¢

 And suddenly his canopy lit up with laser fire, and his X-wing jolted like a startled 
animal beneath him.

 The Star Cruiser had fired on him.

 In his ear, he heard Five shout something. "Stay back," Wedge snapped, fighting against 
a sudden drop in power and giving his scopes a quick scan. "I'm hit, but not bad."

 "They fired on you!"

 "Yeah, I know," Wedge said, trying to maintain some kind of evasive maneuvering with 
what little control he had left. Fortunately, the systems were starting to come back on line 
as his R2 unit did some fast rerouting. Even more fortunately, the Star Cruiser didn't 
seem inclined to shoot at him again.

 But why had it fired in the first place?

 Unless...

 His own R2 was too busy with rerouting chores to handle anything else at the moment. 
"Rogue Five, I need a fast sensor scan," he called. "Where are the rest of those cone 
things?"

 "Hang on, I'll check," the other replied. "Scope shows... I don't find more than about 
fifteen of them. Nearest one's ten kilometers away¢bearing one-one-eight mark four."

 Wedge felt something hard settle into his stomach. Fifteen, out of the fifty that had been 
in that freighter with the TIE fighters. So where had the rest of them gone? "Let's go take 
a look," he said, turning into an intercept vector.

 The cone thing was heading toward another Escort Frigate like theLarkhess , he saw, 
with four TIE fighters running interference for it. Not that there was much potential for 
interference¢ if the Frigate was manned anywhere near as sparsely as theLarkhess , it 
would have precious little chance of fighting back. "Let's see if we can take them before 
they notice us," he told Five as they closed the distance.

 Abruptly, all four TIE fighters peeled off and came around. So much for surprise. "Take 
the two on the right, Rogue Five; I'll take the others."

 "Copy."

 Wedge waited until the last second before firing on the first of his targets, swinging 
around instantly to avoid collision with the other. It swept past beneath him, his X-wing 
shuddering as it took another hit. He leaned hard into the turn, catching a glimpse of the 
TIE fighter dropping into a pursuit slot as he did so¢

 And suddenly something shot past him, spitting laser fire and twisting back and around 
in some kind of insane variant on a drunkard's-walk evasive maneuver. The TIE fighter 
caught a direct hit and blew into a spectacular cloud of fiery gas. Wedge finished his turn, 
just as Rogue Five's second target fighter did likewise.

 "All clear, Wedge," a familiar voice called into his ear. "You damaged?"

 "I'm fine, Luke," Wedge assured him. "Thanks."

 "Look¢there it goes," Han's voice cut in. "Over by the Frigate. It's one of Lando's mole 
miners, all right."

 "I see it," Luke said. "What's it doing out here?"

 "I saw one stuck onto the Star Cruiser back there," Wedge told him, swinging back on 
course for the Frigate. "Looks like this one's trying to do the same thing. I don't know 
why."

 "Whatever it's doing, let's stop it," Han said.

 "Right."

 It was, Wedge saw, going to be a close race; but it was quickly clear that the mole miner 
was going to win it. Already it had turned its base around toward the Frigate and was 
starting to nestle up against the hull.

 And just before it closed the gap completely, he caught a glimpse of an acridly brilliant 
light.

 "What wasthat ?" Luke asked.

 "I don't know," Wedge said, blinking away the afterimage. "It looked too bright for laser 
fire."

 "It was a plasma jet," Han grunted as theFalcon came up alongside him. "Right on top 
of the bridge emergency escape hatch. That's what they wanted the mole miners for. 
They're using them to burn through the hulls¢"

 He broke off; and, abruptly, he swore. "Luke¢we got it backwards. They're not here to 
wreck the fleet.

 "They're here tosteal it."

  

