What he needed was some way to distract or blind them...

 "Artoo, I need a fast reprogramming on one of the proton torpedoes," he called. "I want 
to drop it at zero delta-v, then have it turn around and head straight aft. No sensors or 
homing codes, either¢I want it to go out cold. Can you do that?" There was an affirmative 
beep. "Good. As soon as it's ready, give me a warning and then let it go."

 He turned his attention back to the rear scope, gave the X-wing's course a slight 
readjustment. With its guidance sensors in their normal active state, the torpedo would be 
subject to the Star Destroyer's impressive array of jamming equipment; going out cold 
like this would limit the Imperials' response to trying to shoot it down with laser fire. The 
flip side of that, of course, was that if it wasn't aimedvery accurately, it would shoot right 
past its intended target without even a twitch.

 Artoo beeped; and with a slight lurch, the torpedo was away. Luke watched it go, 
reaching out with the Force to give it a slight realignment tap¢

 And a second later, with a spectacular multiple flash of sympathetic detonations, the 
freighter blew up.

 Luke looked at the proximity indicator, mentally crossing his fingers. Almost out of 
range now. If the debris from the freighter could screen off the tractor beam for a few 
more seconds, they should make it.

 Artoo warbled a warning. Luke glanced at the translation, then at the long-range scope, 
and felt his stomach tighten. Artoo warbled again, more insistently this time. "I see it, 
Artoo," Luke growled. It was, of course, the obvious tactic for the Imperials to employ. 
With the freighter no longer of any interest whatsoever, the Interdictor was changing 
position, swinging around to try to bring its huge gravity field projectors more fully to 
bear on the escaping X-wing. Luke watched as the cone-shaped field area angled across 
the scope...

 "Hang on, Artoo," he called; and, again too abruptly for the compensators to totally 
negate, he swung the X-wing into a right-angle turn, blasting laterally to their original 
course.

 From behind him came a shocked screech. "Quiet, Artoo, I know what I'm doing," he 
told the droid. Off to starboard now, the Star Destroyer was belatedly trying to shift its 
massive bulk, pivoting to track Luke's maneuver... and for the first time since the 
beginning of the encounter, flashes of laser fire began lancing out.

 Luke made a quick decision. Speed alone wasn't going to save him now, and a near miss 
could end the contest right here and now. "Deflectors up, Artoo," he instructed the droid, 
giving his full attention to his best evasive maneuvering. "Give me a balance between 
shield power and speed."

 Artoo beeped a response, and there was a slight drop in engine noise as the shields 
began drawing power. They were going slower, but so far the gamble seemed to be 
working. Caught off balance by Luke's right-angle maneuver, the Interdictor was now 
rotating in the wrong direction, its gravity beam sweeping across Luke's previous course 
instead of tracking the current one. Its commander was obviously trying to correct that 
mistake, but the sheer inertia of the ship's massive gravity generators was on Luke's side. 
If he could stay out of the Star Destroyer's range for another few seconds, he'd be out of 
the beam and free to escape to hyperspace. "Stand by for lightspeed," he told Artoo. 
"Don't worry about direction¢we can do a short hop and set things up more carefully once 
we're clear."

 Artoo acknowledged¢

 And without warning, Luke was slammed hard against his harness.

 The Star Destroyer's tractor beam had them.

 Artoo shrilled in dismay; but Luke had no time to comfort the droid now. His 
straight-line course had suddenly become an arc, a sort of pseudoorbit with the Star 
Destroyer playing the role of planet at its center. Unlike a true orbit, though, this one 
wasn't stable, and as soon as the Imperials got another beam focused on him, the circle 
would quickly degenerate into a tight inward spiral. A spiral whose end point would be 
inside the Star Destroyer's hangar bay.

 He dropped the shields, throwing full power once again to the drive, knowing full well it 
was most likely a futile gesture. And he was right¢for a second the beam seemed to falter, 
but it quickly caught back up with him. Such a relatively minor change in speed was too 
small to foul up the beam's tracking equipment.

 But if he could find a way to arrange a more major change in speed...

 "Unidentified starfighter." The harsh voice was back, unmistakably gloating this time. 
"You have no chance of escape; further efforts will merely damage your vehicle. You are 
ordered to power down and prepare to dock."

 Luke clenched his teeth. This was going to be dangerous, but he'd run out of choices. 
And hehad heard stories of this working at least once before. Somewhere. "Artoo, we're 
going to try something tricky," he called to the droid. "On my signal, I want you to 
reverse-trigger the acceleration compensator¢full power, and bypass the cutoffs if you 
have to." Something warbled from the control panel, and he risked a quick look at the 
scope. His curving arc had brought him right to the edge of the Interdictor's gravity 
projection. "Artoo:now. "

 And with a scream of horribly stressed electronics, the X-wing came to a sudden dead 
stop.

 There wasn't even enough time for Luke to wonder what aboard his ship could possibly 
have made a scream like that before he was again thrown, even harder this time, against 
his harness. His thumbs, ready on the firing buttons, jabbed down hard, sending a pair of 
proton torpedoes lancing forward; simultaneously, he pulled the X-wing upward. The 
Star Destroyer's tractor beam, tracking him along his path, had momentarily gotten lost 
by his sudden maneuver. If the computers guiding that lock would now be considerate 
enough to latch onto the proton torpedoes instead of him¢

 And suddenly the torpedoes were gone, leaving behind only a wisp of their exhaust trail 
to show that they'd been snatched off their original course. The gamble had succeeded; 
the Star Destroyer was now steadily pulling in the wrong target.

 "We're free!" he snapped to Artoo, throwing full power to the drive. "Get ready for 
lightspeed."

 The droid trilled something, but Luke had no time to look down at the computer scope 
for the translation. Realizing their error, and recognizing there was insufficient time to 
reestablish a tractor lock, the Imperials had apparently decided to go for a straight kill. 
All the Star Destroyer's batteries seemed to open up at once, and Luke suddenly found 
himself trying to dodge a virtual sandstorm of laser fire. Forcing himself to relax, he let 
the Force flow through him, allowing it to guide his hands on the controls the way it did 
his lightsaber. The ship jumped once as a shot got through; in his peripheral vision he 
saw the tip of his dorsal/starboard laser cannon flash and disappear into a cloud of 
superheated plasma. A near miss burned past overhead; another, closer, scorched a line 
across the transparisteel canopy.

 Another warble came from the scope: they were clear of the Interdictor's gravity 
shadow. "Go!" Luke shouted to Artoo.

 And with a second, even more nerve-wrenching electronic scream from behind him, the 
sky ahead abruptly turned to starlines.

 They'd made it.

  

 For what seemed like a small eternity Thrawn gazed out the viewport, staring at the spot 
where Skywalker's X-wing had been when it had vanished. Surreptitiously, Pellaeon 
watched him, wondering tautly when the inevitable explosion would come. With half an 
ear he listened to the damage control reports corning from the Number Four tractor beam 
projector, carefully not getting himself involved with the cleanup.

 The destruction of one of theChimera 's ten projectors was a relatively minor loss. 
Skywalker's escape was not.

 Thrawn stirred and turned around. Pellaeon tensed¢ "Come with me, Captain," the 
Grand Admiral said quietly, striding away down the bridge command walkway.

 "Yes, sir," Pellaeon murmured, falling into step behind him, the stories of how Darth 
Vader had dealt with subordinates' failures running through his mind.

 The bridge was uncommonly quiet as Thrawn led the way to the aft stairway and 
descended into the starboard crew pit. He walked past the crewers at their consoles, past 
the officers standing painfully erect behind them, and came to a halt at the control station 
for the starboard tractor beams. "Your name," he said, his voice excruciatingly calm.

 "Cris Pieterson, sir," the young man seated at the console answered, his eyes wary.

 "You were in charge of the tractor beam during our engagement with the starfighter." It 
was a statement, not a question.

 "Yes, sir¢but what happened wasn't my fault."

 Thrawn's eyebrows arched, just a bit. "Explain."

 Pieterson started to gesture to the side, changed his mind in midmotion. "The target did 
something with his acceleration compensator that killed his velocity vector¢"

 "I'm aware of the facts," Thrawn cut in. "I'm waiting to hear why his escape wasn't your 
fault."

 "I was never properly trained for such an occurrence, sir," Pieterson said, a flicker of 
defiance touching his eyes. "The computer lost the lock, but seemed to pick it up again 
right away. There was no way for me to know it had really picked up something else 
until¢"

 "Until the proton torpedoes detonated against the projector?"

 Pieterson held his gaze evenly. "Yes, sir."

 For a long moment Thrawn studied him. "Who is your officer?" he asked at last.

 Pieterson's eyes shifted to the right. "Ensign Colclazure, sir."

 Slowly, deliberately, Thrawn turned to the tall man standing rigidly at attention with his 
back to the walkway. "You are in charge of this man?"

 Colclazure swallowed visibly. "Yes, sir," he said.

 "Was his training also your responsibility?"

 "Yes, sir," Colclazure said again.

 "Did you, during that training, run through any scenarios similar to what just 
happened?"

 "I... don't remember, sir," the ensign admitted. "The standard training packagedoes 
include scenarios concerning loss of lock and subsequent reestablishment confirmation."

 Thrawn threw a brief glance back down at Pieterson. "Did you recruit him as well, 
Ensign?"

 "No, sir. He was a conscript."

 "Does that make him less worthy of your training time than a normal enlistee?"

 "No, sir." Colclazure's eyes flicked to Pieterson. "I've always tried to treat my 
subordinates equally."

 "I see." Thrawn considered a moment, then half turned to look past Pellaeon's shoulder. 
"Rukh."

 Pellaeon started as Rukh brushed silently past him; he hadn't realized the Noghri had 
followed them down. Thrawn waited until Rukh was standing at his side, then turned 
back to Colclazure. "Do you know the difference between an error and a mistake, 
Ensign?"

 The entire bridge had gone deathly still. Colclazure swallowed again, his face starting to 
go pale. "No, sir."

 "Anyone can make an error, Ensign. But that error doesn't become a mistake until you 
refuse to correct it." He raised a finger¢

 And, almost lazily, pointed.

 Pellaeon never even saw Rukh move. Pieterson certainly never had time to scream.

 From farther down the crew pit came the sound of someone trying valiantly not to be 
sick. Thrawn glanced over Pellaeon's shoulder again and gestured, and the silence was 
further broken by the sound of a pair of stormtroopers coming forward. "Dispose of it," 
the Grand Admiral ordered them, turning away from Pieterson's crumpled body and 
pinning Colclazure with a stare. "The error, Ensign," he told the other softly, "has now 
been corrected. You may begin training a replacement."

 He held Colclazure's eyes another heartbeat. Then, seemingly oblivious to the tension 
around him, he turned back to Pellaeon. "I want a full technical/tactical readout on the 
last few seconds of that encounter, Captain," he said, all calm business again. "I'm 
particularly interested in his lightspeed vector."

 "I have it all here, sir," a lieutenant spoke up a bit hesitantly, stepping forward to offer 
the Grand Admiral a data pad.

 "Thank you." Thrawn glanced at it briefly, handed it to Pellaeon. "We'll have him, 
Captain," he said, starting back down the crew pit toward the stairway. "Very soon now, 
we'll have him."

 "Yes, sir," Pellaeon agreed cautiously, hurrying to catch up with the other. "I'm sure it's 
just a matter of time."

 Thrawn raised an eyebrow. "You misunderstand me," he said mildly. "I mean that 
literally. He's out there right now, not very far away. And¢" he smiled slyly at Pellaeon 
"¢he's helpless."

 Pellaeon frowned. "I don't understand, sir."

 "That maneuver he used has an interesting side effect I suspect he didn't know about," 
the Grand Admiral explained. "Backfiring an acceleration compensator like that does 
severe damage to the adjoining hyperdrive. A light-year away, no farther, and it will fail 
completely. All we have to do is make a search along that vector, or persuade others to do 
our searching for us, and he'll be ours. You follow?"

 "Yes, sir," Pellaeon said. "Shall I contact the rest of the fleet?"

 Thrawn shook his head. "Preparing for the Sluis Van attack is the fleet's top priority at 
the moment. No, I think we'll subcontract this one out. I want you to send messages to all 
the major smuggling chiefs whose groups operate in this area¢Brasck, Karrde, Par'tah, 
any others we have on file. Use their private frequencies and encrypt codes¢a little 
reminder of how much we know about each of them should help ensure their cooperation. 
Give them Skywalker's hyperspace vector and offer a bounty of thirty thousand for his 
capture."

 "Yes, sir." Pellaeon glanced back down the crew pit, at the activity still going on around 
the tractor beam station. "Sir, if you knew that Skywalker's escape was only 
temporary...?"

 "The Empire is at war, Captain," the Grand Admiral said, his voice cold. "We cannot 
afford the luxury of men whose minds are so limited they cannot adapt to unexpected 
situations."

 He looked significantly at Rukh, then turned those glowing eyes back on Pellaeon. 
"Carry out your orders, Captain. Skywalkerwill be ours. Alive... or otherwise."

  

 Chapter 17

 In front of Luke, the scopes and displays glowed softly as the diagnostic messages, most 
of them bordered in red, scrolled past. Beyond the displays, through the canopy, he could 
see the X-wing's nose, lit faintly by the sheen of distant starlight. Beyond that were the 
stars themselves, blazing all around him with cold brilliance.

 And that was all. No sun, no planets, no asteroids, no cometary bodies. No warships, 
transports, satellites, or probes. Nothing. He and Artoo were stranded, very literally, in 
the middle of nowhere.

 The computer's diagnostic package came to an end. "Artoo?" he called. "What've you 
got?"

 From behind him came a distinctly mournful electronic moan, and the droid's reply 
appeared on the computer scope. "That bad, huh?"

 Artoo moaned again, and the computer's summary was replaced by the droid's own 
assessment of their situation.

 It wasn't good. Luke's reverse-triggering of the acceleration compensator had caused an 
unanticipated feedback surge into both hyperdrive motivators¢not enough to fry them on 
the spot, but scorching them badly enough to cause sudden failure ten minutes into their 
escape. At the Point Four the ship had been doing at the time, that translated into 
approximately half a light-year of distance. Just for good measure, the same power surge 
had also completely crystallized the subspace radio antenna.

 "In other words," Luke said, "we can't leave, we aren't likely to be found, and we can't 
call for help. Does that about sum it up?"

 Artoo beeped an addition. "Right," Luke sighed. "And we can't stay here. Not for long, 
anyway."

 Luke rubbed a hand across his chin, forcing back the sense of dread gnawing at him. 
Giving in to fear would only rob him of the ability to think, and that was the last thing he 
could afford to lose at this point. "All right," he said slowly. "Try this. We take the 
hyperdrive motivators off both engines and see if we can salvage enough components to 
put together a single functional one. If we can, we remount it somewhere in the middle of 
the aft fuselage where it can handle both engines. Maybe where the S-Foil servo actuator 
is now¢we don't need that to get home. Possible?"

 Artoo whistled thoughtfully. "I'm not asking if it'll be easy," Luke said patiently as the 
droid's response came up. "Just if it would be possible."

 Another whistle, another pessimistic message. "Well, let's give it a try anyway," Luke 
told him, unstrapping his restraints and trying to wriggle around in the cramped confines 
of the cockpit. If he pulled off the back of the ejection seat, he would be able to get into 
the cargo compartment and the tools stored there.

 Artoo warbled something else. "Don't worry, I'm not going to get stuck," Luke assured 
him, changing his mind and reaching for the in-cockpit pouches instead. The gloves and 
helmet seals for his flight suit were stored there; it'd be just as easy at this point to gear 
himself for vacuum and then get into the cargo compartment through its underside hatch. 
"If you want to be helpful, you might pull up the maintenance specs and find out exactly 
how I go about getting one of those motivators out. And cheer up, will you? You're 
starting to sound like Threepio."

 Artoo was still jabbering indignantly over that characterization when the last of Luke's 
helmet seals cut off the sound. But hedid sound less frightened.

  

 It took nearly two hours for Luke to get past all the other cables and tubing in the way 
and remove the port engine hyperdrive motivator from its socket.

 It took less than a minute more to discover that Artoo's earlier pessimism had been 
justified.

 "It's riddled with cracks," Luke told the droid grimly, turning the bulky box over in his 
hands. "The whole shield casing. Just hairlines, really¢you can barely see some of them. 
But they run most of the length of the sides."

 Artoo gave a soft gurgle, a comment which required no translation. Luke hadn't done a 
lot of X-wing maintenance, but he knew enough to recognize that without an intact 
superconducting shield, a hyperdrive motivator was little more than a box of 
interconnected spare parts. "Let's not give up yet," he reminded Artoo. "If the other 
motivator's casing is all right we may still be in business."

 Collecting his tool kit, feeling inordinately clumsy in zero-gee freefall, he made his way 
under the X-wing's fuselage to the starboard engine. It took only a few minutes to remove 
the proper access cover and tie back some of the interfering cables. Then, trying to get 
both his faceplate and his glow rod together in the opening without blinding himself, he 
peered inside.

 A careful look at the motivator casing showed that there was no need to continue the 
operation.

 For a long moment he just hung there, one knee bumping gently against the power surge 
vent, wondering what in the name of the Force they were going to do now. His X-wing, 
so sturdy and secure in even the thick of combat, seemed now to be little more than a 
terribly fragile thread by which his life was hanging

 He looked around him¢looked at the emptiness and the distant stars¢and as he did so, 
the vague sense of falling that always accompanied zero-gee came flooding back in on 
him. A memory flashed: hanging from the underside of Cloud City, weak from fear and 
the shock of losing his right hand, wondering how long he would have the strength to 
hang on.Leia, he called silently, putting all the power of his new Jedi skill into the 
effort.Leia, hear me. Answer me.

 There was no answer except for the echoing of the call through Luke's own mind. But 
then, he hadn't expected one. Leia was long gone, safe on Kashyyyk by now, under the 
protection of Chewbacca and a whole planet of Wookiees.

 He wondered if she'd ever find out what had happened to him.

 For the Jedi, there is no emotion; there is peace.Luke took a deep breath, forcing back 
the black thoughts. No, he would not give up. And if the hyperdrive couldn't be fixed... 
well, perhaps there was something else they could try. "I'm coming in, Artoo," he 
announced, replacing the access panel and again collecting his tools. "While you're 
waiting, I want you to pull everything we've got on the subspace radio antenna."

 Artoo had the data assembled by the time Luke got the cockpit canopy sealed over him 
again. Like the hyperdrive data, it wasn't especially encouraging. Made of ten kilometers 
of ultrathin superconducting wire wound tightly around a U-shaped core, a subspace 
radio antenna wasn't something that was supposed to be field-repairable.

 But then, Luke wasn't the average X-wing pilot, either.

 "All right, here's what we're going to do," he told the droid slowly. "The antenna's outer 
wiring is useless, but it doesn't look like the core itself was damaged. If we can find ten 
kilometers of superconducting wire somewhere else on the ship, we should be able to 
make ourselves a new one. Right?"

 Artoo thought about that, gurgled an answer. "Oh, come on now," Luke admonished 
him. "You mean to tell me you can't do what some nonintelligent wire-wrapping machine 
does all day?"

 The droid's beeping response sounded decidedly indignant. The translation that scrolled 
across the computer scope was even more so. "Well, then, there's no problem," Luke said, 
suppressing a smile. "I'd guess either the repulsorlift drive or else the sensor jammer will 
have all the wire we need. Check on that, will you?"

 There was a pause, and Artoo quietly whistled something. "Yes, I know what the life 
support's limitations are," Luke agreed. "That's why you'll be the one doing all the wiring. 
I'm going to have to spend most of the time back in hibernation trance."

 Another series of whistles. "Don't worry about it," Luke assured him. "As long as I 
come up every few days for food and water, hibernation is perfectly safe. You've seen me 
do it a dozen times, remember? Now get busy and run those checks."

 Neither of the two components had quite the length of wiring they needed, but after 
poking around a little in the more esoteric sections of his technical memory, Artoo came 
to the conclusion that the eight kilometers available in the sensor jammer should be 
adequate to create at least a low-efficiency antenna. He conceded, however, that there 
was no way to know for sure until they actually tried it.

 It was another hour's work for Luke to get the jammer and antenna out of the ship, strip 
the ruined wire off the core of the latter, and move everything to the upper aft fuselage 
where Artoo's two graspers could reach it. Jury-rigging a framework to feed the wire and 
protect it from snagging took another hour, and he took a half hour more to watch the 
operation from inside to make sure it was going smoothly.

 At which point there was nothing left for him to do.

 "Now, don't forget," he warned the droid as he settled himself as comfortably into the 
cockpit seat as possible. "If anything goes wrong¢or you eventhink something's about to 
go wrong¢ you go ahead and wake me up. Got that?"

 Artoo whistled his assurances. "All right," Luke said, more to himself than to the droid. 
"I guess this is it, then."

 He took a deep breath, letting his gaze sweep one last time across the starry sky. If this 
didn't work... But there was no point in worrying about that now. He'd done all he could 
for the moment. It was time now for him to draw upon inner peace, and to entrust his fate 
to Artoo.

 To Artoo... and to the Force.

 He took another deep breath.Leia , he called, uselessly, one last time. Then, turning his 
mind and thoughts inward, he began to slow his heart.

 The last thing he remembered before the darkness took him was the odd sense that 
someone, somewhere, had in fact heard that final call....

  

 Leia...

 Leia jerked awake. "Luke?" she called, propping herself up on one elbow and peering 
into the dimness surrounding her. She could have sworn she'd heard his voice. His voice, 
or perhaps the touch of his mind.

 But there was no one. Nothing but the cramped space of theLady Luck 's main cabin and 
the pounding of her own heart and the familiar background sounds of a ship in flight. 
And, a dozen meters away in the cockpit, the unmistakable sense of Chewbacca's 
presence. And as she woke further, she remembered that Luke was hundreds of 
light-years away.

 It must have been a dream.

 With a sigh, she lay back down. But even as she did so, she heard the subtle change in 
sound and vibration pattern as the main sublight drive shut down and the repulsorlift 
kicked in. Listening closer, she could hear the faint sound of air rushing past the hull.

 Slightly ahead of schedule, they were coming in to Kashyyyk.

 She got out of bed and found her clothes, feeling her quiet misgivings gnawing with 
renewed force as she got dressed. Han and Chewbacca could make all the reassuring 
noises they wanted, but she'd read the diplomatic reports, and she knew full well how 
strong the undercurrent of resentment was that the Wookiees still harbored toward 
humans. Whether her status as a member of the New Republic hierarchy would make up 
for that was, in her view, entirely problematical.

 Especially given her chronic difficulty in understanding their language.

 The thought made her wince, and not for the first time since leaving Nkllon, she wished 
she'd had Lando use some other droid for his little voice-matching trick. Having Threepio 
and his seven-million-language translator along would have made this whole thing so 
much less awkward.

 TheLady Luck was already deep into the atmosphere by the time she arrived in the 
cockpit, skimming low over a surprisingly flat layer of clouds and making smooth curves 
around the treetops that were occasionally visible poking through them. She remembered 
when she'd first come across a reference to the size of Kashyyyk's trees; she'd had a 
full-blown argument with the Senate librarian at the time about how the government 
could not afford to have its records data shot through with such clearly absurd errors. 
Even now, with them right in front of her, she found the things hard to believe. "Is that 
size typical forwroshyr trees?" she asked Chewbacca as she slipped into the seat beside 
him.

 Chewbacca growled a negative: the ones visible above the clouds were probably half a 
kilometer taller than the average. "They're the ones you put nursery rings on, then," Leia 
nodded.

 He looked at her, and even with her limited ability to read Wookiee faces his surprise 
was quite evident. "Don't look so shocked," she admonished him with a smile. "Some of 
us humans know a little about Wookiee culture. We aren'tall ignorant savages, you 
know."

 For a moment he just stared at her. Then, with an urf-urf-urf of laughter, he turned back 
to the controls.

 Ahead and to the right, a tighter group of the extra-tallwroshyr trees had come into 
view. Chewbacca turned theLady Luck toward it, and within a few minutes they were 
close enough for Leia to see the network of cables or thin branches linking them together 
just above cloud height. Chewbacca circled the ship partway around, bringing it within 
the perimeter; and then, with just a growl of warning, dropped sharply down into the 
clouds.

 Leia grimaced. She'd never really liked flying blind, especially in an area crowded with 
obstacles the size ofwroshyr trees. But almost before theLady Luck was completely 
enveloped by the thick white fog they were clear of it again. Immediately below them 
was another cloud layer. Chewbacca dropped them into that one, too, and drove through 
it to clear air again¢

 Leia inhaled sharply. Filling the entire gap between the group of massive trees, 
apparently hanging suspended in midair, was a city.

 Not just a collection of primitive huts and fires like the Ewok tree villages on Endor. 
This was a real, genuine city, stretching out over a square kilometer or more of space. 
Even from this distance she could see that the buildings were large and complex, some of 
them two or three stories high, and that the avenues between them were straight and 
carefully laid out. The huge boles of the trees poked up around and, in some places, 
through the city, giving the illusion of giant brown columns supporting a rooftop of 
clouds. Surrounding the city on all sides, strangely colored searchlight beams lanced 
outward.

 Beside her, Chewbacca rumbled a question. "No, I've never even seen holos of a 
Wookiee village," she breathed. "My loss, obviously." They were getting closer now; 
close enough for her to see that the Cloud City-type unipod she'd expected was nowhere 
to be seen.

 For that matter, there was no support ofany kind visible. Was the whole city being held 
up by repulsorlifts?

 TheLady Luck banked slightly to the left. Directly ahead of them now, at one edge of the 
city and a little above it, was a circular platform rimmed with landing lights. The 
platform seemed to be sticking straight out from one of the trees, and it took a few 
seconds for her to realize that the whole thing was nothing more or less than the remnant 
of a huge limb that had been horizontally cut off near the trunk.

 A not insignificant engineering feat. Dimly, she wondered how they'd disposed of the 
rest of the limb.
