 "We already¢" Chin began. The major looked at him, and he fell silent.

 The frisking took only a minute, and came up empty. "Put him in the pocket with the 
others," the major ordered. "All right, Chin, you and your friends can go. If he turns out 
to be worth anything, I'll see you get a piece of it."

 "Uncommonly generous of you," Chin said with an expression that was just short of a 
sneer. "Can we have our guns back now?"

 The major's expression hardened. "You can pick them up later at our HQ," he said. 
"Hyllyard Hotel, straight across the square¢but I'm sure a sophisticated citizen like 
yourself already knows where it is."

 For a moment Chin seemed inclined to argue the point. But a glance at the 
stormtroopers clustered around evidently changed his mind for him. Without a word he 
turned, and he and his three companions strode back toward the city.

 "Move out," the major ordered, and they started up again.

 "Well," Han muttered, falling into step beside Luke. "Together again, huh?"

 "I wouldn't miss it," Luke muttered back. "Your friends there seem in a hurry to get 
away."

 "Probably don't want to miss the party," Han told him. "A little something they threw 
together to celebrate my capture."

 Luke threw him a sideways look. "Shame we weren't invited."

 "Real shame," Han agreed with a straight face. "You never know, though."

 They had turned into the avenue now, moving toward the center of town. Just visible 
over the heads of the stormtroopers, he could see something gray and rounded directly 
ahead of them. Craning his neck for a better view, he saw that the structure was in fact a 
freestanding archway, rising from the ground near the far end of the open village square 
he had noticed earlier.

 A fairly impressive archway, too, especially for a city this far outside the mainstream of 
the galaxy. The upper part was composed of different types of fitted stone, the crown 
flaring outward like a cross between an umbrella and a section of sliced mushroom. The 
lower part curved in and downward, to end in a pair of meter-square supporting pillars on 
each side. The entire arch rose a good ten meters into the sky, with the distance between 
the pillars perhaps half that. Lying directly in front of it was the village square, a 
fifteen-meter expanse of empty ground.

 The perfect place for an ambush.

 Luke felt his stomach tighten. The perfect place for an ambush... except that if it was 
obvious to him, it must be obvious to the stormtroopers, as well.

 And it was. The vanguard of the party had reached the square now, and as the 
stormtroopers moved out of the confines of the narrow avenue, each lifted his blaster rifle 
a little higher and moved a little farther apart from his fellows. They were expecting an 
ambush, all right. And they were expecting it right here.

 Gritting his teeth, Luke focused again on the archway. "Is Threepio here?" he muttered 
to Han.

 He sensed Han's frown, but the other didn't waste time with unnecessary questions. 
"He's with Lando, yeah."

 Luke nodded and glanced down to his right. Beside him, Artoo was rolling along the 
bumpy street, trying hard to keep up. Bracing himself, Luke took a step in that direction¢

 And with a squeal, Artoo tripped over Luke's outstretched foot and fell flat with a crash.

 Luke was crouched beside him in an instant, leaning over him as he struggled with his 
manacled hands to get the little droid upright again. He sensed some of the stormtroopers 
moving forward to assist, but for that single moment, there was no one else close enough 
to hear him. "Artoo, call to Threepio," he breathed into the droid's audio receptor. "Tell 
him to wait until we're at the archway to attack."

 The droid complied instantly, its loud warble nearly deafening Luke as he crouched 
there beside him. Luke's head was still ringing when rough hands grabbed him under the 
arms and hauled him to his feet. He regained his balance¢

 To find the major standing in front of him, a suspicious scowl on his face. "What was 
that?" the other demanded.

 "He fell over," Luke told him. "I think he tripped¢"

 "I meant that transmission," the major cut him off harshly. "What did he say?"

 "He was probably telling me off for tripping him," Luke shot back. "How shouldI know 
what he said?"

 For a long minute the major glared at him. "Move out, Commander," he said at last to 
the stormtrooper at his side. "Everyone stay alert."

 He turned away, and they started walking again. "I hope," Han murmured from beside 
him, "you know what you're doing."

 Luke took a deep breath and fixed his eyes on the archway ahead. "So do I," he 
murmured back.

 In a very few minutes, he knew, they would both find out.

  

 Chapter 29

 "Oh, my!" Threepio gasped. "General Calrissian, I have¢"

 "Quiet, Threepio," Lando ordered, peering carefully around the edge of the window at 
the minor commotion going on across the square. "Did you see what happened, Aves?"

 Crouched down beneath the windowsill, Aves shook his head. "Looked like Skywalker 
and his droid both fell over," he said. "Couldn't tell for sure¢too many stormtroopers in 
the way."

 "General Calrissian¢"

 "Quiet,Threepio." Lando watched tensely as two stormtroopers pulled Luke to his feet, 
then righted Artoo. "Looks like they're okay."

 "Yeah." Aves reached down to the floor beside him, picked up the small transmitter. 
"Here we go. Let's hope everyone's ready."

 "And that Chin and the others aren't still carrying their blasters," Lando added under his 
breath.

 Aves snorted. "They aren't. Don't worry¢stormtroopers are always confiscating other 
people's weapons."

 Lando nodded, adjusting his grip on his blaster, wishing they could get this over with. 
Across the way, the Imperials seemed to have gotten themselves sorted out and were 
starting to move again. As soon as they were all inside the square, away from any 
possible cover...

 "General Calrissian, Imust speak to you," Threepio insisted. "I have a message from 
Master Luke."

 Lando blinked at him. "FromLuke? "

 ¢but even as he said it he suddenly remembered that electronic wail from Artoo just 
after he'd fallen over. Could that have been¢? "What is it?"

 "Master Luke wants you to hold off the attack," Threepio said, obviously relieved that 
someone was finally listening to him. "He says you're to wait until the stormtroopers are 
at the arch before firing."

 Aves twisted around. "What? That's crazy. They outnumber us three to one¢we give 
them any chance at all at cover and they'll cut us to pieces."

 Lando looked out the window, grinding his teeth together. Aves was right¢he knew 
enough of ground tactics to realize that. But on the other hand... "They're awfully spread 
out out there," he said. "Cover or no cover, they're going to be hard to take out. 
Especially with those speeder bikes on their perimeter."

 Aves shook his head. "It's crazy," he repeated. "I'm not going to risk my people that 
way."

 "Luke knows what he's doing," Lando insisted. "He's a Jedi."

 "He's not a Jedi now," Aves snorted. "Didn't Karrde explain about the ysalamiri?"

 "Whether he has Jedi powers or not, he's still a Jedi," Lando insisted. His blaster, he 
realized suddenly, was pointed at Aves. But that was okay, because Aves's blaster was 
pointed at him, too. "Anyway, his life is more on the line here than any of yours¢you can 
always abort and pull back."

 "Oh, sure," Aves snorted, throwing a glance out the window. The Imperials were 
nearing the middle of the square now, Lando saw, the stormtroopers looking wary and 
alert as anything. "Except that if we leave any of them alive, they'll seal off the city. And 
what about that Chariot up there?"

 "What about it?" Lando countered. "I still haven't heard how you're planning to take it 
out."

 "Well, we sure as blazes don't want it on the ground," Aves retorted. "And that's what'll 
happen if we let the stormtroopers get to the arch. The Chariot'll put down right across 
the front of it, right between us and them. That, plus the arch itself, will give them all the 
cover they need to sit back and take us out at their leisure." He shook his head and shifted 
his grip on the transmitter. "Anyway, it's too late to clue in the others to any plan 
changes."

 "You don't have to clue them in," Lando said, feeling sweat collecting under his collar. 
Luke was counting on him. "No one's supposed to do anything until you trigger the 
booby-trapped weapons."

 Aves shook his head again. "It's too risky." He turned back to the window, raised the 
transmitter.

 And here, Lando realized¢right here¢was where it all came down to the wire. Where 
you decided who or what it was you trusted. Tactics and abstract logic... or people. 
Lowering his blaster, he gently rested the tip of the muzzle against Aves's neck. "We 
wait," he said quietly.

 Aves didn't move; but suddenly there was something in the way he crouched there that 
reminded Lando of a hunting predator. "I won't forget this, Calrissian," he said, his voice 
icy soft.

 "I wouldn't want you to," Lando said. He looked out at the stormtroopers... and hoped 
that Luke did indeed know what he was doing.

  

 The vanguard had already passed the archway, and the major was only a few steps away 
from it, when four of the stormtroopers abruptly blew up.

 Quite spectacularly, too. The simultaneous flashes of yellow-white fire lit up the 
landscape to almost painful intensity; the thunderclap of the multiple detonations nearly 
knocked Luke over.

 The sound was still ringing in his ears when the blasters opened up behind them.

 The stormtroopers were good, all right. There was no panic that Luke could detect; no 
sudden freezing in astonishment or indecision. They were moving into combat position 
almost before the blaster fire had begun: those already at the archway hugging close to 
the stone pillars to return covering fire, the rest moving quickly to join them. Above the 
sound of the blasters, he could hear the increased whine of the speeder bikes kicking into 
high speed; overhead, he caught just a glimpse of the Chariot assault vehicle swiveling 
around to face the unseen attackers.

 And then an armored hand caught him under each armpit, and suddenly he was being 
hauled toward the archway. A few seconds later he was dumped unceremoniously in the 
narrow gap between the two pillars supporting the north side of the arch. Mara was 
already crouched there; a second later, two more stormtroopers tossed Han in to join 
them. Four of the Imperials moved into position over them, using the pillars for cover as 
they began returning fire. Struggling to his knees, Luke leaned out for a look.

 Out in the fire zone, looking small and helpless amid the deadly horizontal hail of 
blaster fire, Artoo was rolling toward them as fast as his little wheels would carry him.

 "I think we're in trouble," Han muttered in his ear. "Not to mention Lando and the 
others."

 "It's not over yet," Luke told him tightly. "Just stick close. How are you at causing 
distractions?"

 "Terrific," Han said; and to Luke's surprise, he brought his hands out from behind his 
back, the chain and manacles he'd been wearing hanging loosely from his left wrist. 
"Trick cuffs," he grunted, pulling a concealed strip of metal from the inside of the open 
cuff and probing at Luke's restraints. "I hope this thing¢ah." The pressure on Luke's 
wrists was suddenly gone; the cuffs opened and dropped to the ground. "You ready for 
your distraction?" Han asked, taking the loose end of his chain in his free hand.

 "Hang on a minute," Luke told him, looking up. Most of the speeder bikes had taken 
refuge under the arch, looking like some strange species of giant birds hiding from a 
storm as they hovered close to the stone, their laser cannon spitting toward the 
surrounding houses. In front of them and just below their line of fire, the Chariot had 
swiveled parallel to the arch and was coming down. Once it was on the ground...

 A hand gripped Luke's arm, fingernails digging hard into the skin. "Whatever you're 
going to do,do it!" Mara hissed viciously. "If the Chariot gets down, you'll never get them 
out from cover."

 "I know," Luke nodded. "I'm counting on it."

  

 The Chariot settled smoothly to the ground directly in front of the arch, blocking the last 
of the attackers' firing vectors. Crouched at the window, Aves swore violently. "Well, 
there's your Jedi for you," he bit out. "You got any other great ideas, Calrissian?"

 Lando swallowed hard. "We've just got to give him¢"

 He never finished the sentence. From the arch a blaster bolt glanced off the window 
frame, and suddenly Lando's upper arm flashed with pain. The shock sent him stumbling 
backward, just as a second shot blew apart that whole section of the frame, driving 
wooden splinters and chunks of masonry like shrapnel across his chest and arm.

 He hit the floor, landing hard enough to see stars. Blinking, gritting his teeth against the 
pain, he looked up¢

 To find Aves leaning over him.

 Lando looked up into the other's face.I won't forget this, Aves had said, no more than 
three minutes ago. And from the look on his face, he wasn't anticipating any need to hold 
that memory for much longer. "He'll come through," Lando whispered through the pain. 
"He will."

 But he could tell that Aves wasn't listening... and, down deep, Lando couldn't blame 
him. Lando Calrissian, the professional gambler, had gambled one last time. And he'd 
lost.

 And the debt from that gamble¢the last in a long line of such debts¢had come due.

  

 The Chariot settled smoothly to the ground directly in front of the arch, and Luke got his 
feet under him. This was it. "All right, Han," he muttered. "Go."

 Han nodded and surged to his feet, coming up right in the middle of the four 
stormtroopers standing over them. With a bellow, he swung his former shackles full 
across the faceplate of the nearest guard, then threw the looped chain around the neck of 
the next and pulled backwards, away from the pillars. The other two reacted instantly, 
leaping after him and taking the whole group down in a tangle.

 And for the next few seconds, Luke was free.

 He stood up and leaned out to look around the pillar. Artoo was still in the middle of 
no-man's-land, hurrying to reach cover before he could be hit by a stray shot. He warbled 
plaintively as he saw Luke¢

 "Artoo!¢now!" Luke shouted, holding out his hand and glancing across toward the 
southern end of the archway. Between the stone pillars and the grounded Chariot, the 
stormtroopers were indeed solidly entrenched. If this didn't work, Han was right: Lando 
and everyone else out there were dead. Gritting his teeth, hoping fervently that his 
counterattack wasn't already too late, he turned back to Artoo¢

 Just as, with a flicker of silver metal and perfect accuracy, his lightsaber dropped neatly 
into his outstretched hand.

 Beside him, the guards had subdued Han's crazy attack and were getting back to their 
feet, leaving Han on his knees between them. Luke took them all in a single sweep, the 
blazing green lightsaber blade slicing through the glistening stormtrooper armor with 
hardly a tug to mark its passing. "Get behind me," he snapped to Han and Mara, stepping 
back to the gap between the two northern pillars and focusing on the mass of Imperials 
standing and crouching between him and the southern pillars. They were suddenly aware 
that they had an unexpected threat on their flank, and a few were already starting to bring 
their blasters to bear on him.

 With the Force to guide his hand, he could have held out against them indefinitely, 
blocking their blaster shots with the lightsaber. Mara had been right, though: the 
ysalamiri effect did indeed extend this far outside the forest, and the Force was still silent.

 But then, he'd never had any intention of fighting the stormtroopers anyway. Turning his 
back on the blasters tracking toward him, he slashed the lightsaber across and upward¢

 Neatly slicing one of the stone pillars in half.

 There was a loudcrack as suddenly released tension sent a shiver through the structure. 
Another stroke cut through the second pillar¢

 And the noise of the battle was abruptly drowned out by the awful grinding of stone on 
stone as the two fractured pillars began sliding apart.

 Luke swung back around, peripherally aware of Han and Mara scrambling out from 
under the arch to safety behind him. The stormtroopers' expressions were hidden behind 
their masks, but the look of sudden horror on the major's face said it for all of them. 
Overhead, the mass of the arch creaked warningly; setting his teeth, Luke locked the 
lightsaber on and hurled it across the gap toward the pillars there. It cut through one of 
them and nicked the other¢

 And with a roar, the whole thing came crashing down.

 Luke, standing at the edge, barely got out from under it in time. The stormtroopers, 
crouched in the center, didn't.

  

 Chapter 30

 Karrde walked around the mass of stone to where the crumpled nose of the Chariot 
assault vehicle poked out, a sense of slightly stunned disbelief coloring his vision. "One 
man," he murmured.

 "Well,we helped some," Aves reminded him. But the sarcasm of the words faded 
beneath the grudging respect clearly there behind it.

 "And without the Force, too," Karrde said.

 He sensed Aves shrug uncomfortably. "That's what Mara said. Though of course 
Skywalker might have lied to her about it."

 "Unlikely." A motion at the edge of the square caught his eye, and Karrde looked over 
to see Solo and Skywalker helping a distinctly shaky-looking Lando Calrissian to one of 
the airspeeders parked around the perimeter. "Took a shot, did he?"

 Aves grunted. "Came close to taking one of mine, too," he said. "I thought he'd betrayed 
us¢figured I'd make sure he didn't walk away from it."

 "In restrospect, it's just as well you didn't." Karrde looked up, searching the skies. 
Wondering how long it would take the Imperials to respond to what had happened here 
today.

 Aves looked up, too. "We might still be able to hunt down the other two Chariots before 
they get a chance to report," he suggested. "I don't think the headquarters people got any 
messages away before we took them out."

 Karrde shook his head, feeling a deep surge of sadness rising through the sense of 
urgency within him. Not until now had he truly realized just how much he'd come to love 
this place¢his base, the forest, the planet Myrkr itself. Now, when there was no choice 
but to abandon it. "No," he told Aves. "There's no way to cover up our part in what 
happened here. Not from a man like Thrawn."

 "You're probably right," Aves said, his voice taking on a sense of urgency of its own. 
He understood the implications of that, all right. "You want me to head back and start the 
evacuation?"

 "Yes. And take Mara with you. Make sure she keeps busy¢somewhere away from 
theMillennium Falcon and Skywalker's X-wing."

 He felt Aves's eyes on him. But if the other wondered, he kept his wonderings to 
himself. "Right. See you later."

 He hurried away. The airspeeder with Calrissian aboard was lifting off now, heading 
back to where theFalcon was being prepped for flight. Solo and Skywalker were heading 
over toward a second airspeeder; with just a moment's hesitation, Karrde went over to 
intercept them.

 They reached the craft at the same time, and for a moment eyed each other across its 
bow. "Karrde," Solo said at last. "I owe you one."

 Karrde nodded. "Are you still going to get theEtherway out of impoundment for me?"

 "I said I would," Solo told him. "Where do you want it delivered?"

 "Just leave it on Abregado. Someone will pick it up." He turned his attention to 
Skywalker. "An interesting little trick," he commented, tilting his head back toward the 
mass of rubble. "Unorthodox, to say the least."

 Skywalker shrugged. "It worked," he said simply.

 "That it did," Karrde agreed. "Likely saving several of my people's lives in the bargain."

 Skywalker looked him straight back in the eye. "Does that mean you've made your 
decision?"

 Karrde gave him a slight smile. "I don't really see as I have much choice anymore." He 
looked back at Solo. "I presume you'll be leaving immediately?"

 "As soon as we can get Luke's X-wing rigged for towing," Solo nodded, "Lando's doing 
okay, but he's going to need more specialized medical attention than theFalcon can 
handle."

 "It could have been worse," Karrde said.

 Solo gave him a knowing look. "Alot worse," he agreed, his voice hard.

 "So could all of it," Karrde reminded him, putting an edge into his own voice. He could, 
after all, just as easily have turned the three of them over to the Imperials in the first 
place.

 And Solo knew it. "Yeah," he conceded. "Well... so long."

 Karrde watched as they got into the airspeeder. "One other thing," he said as they 
strapped in. "Obviously, we're going to have to pull out of here before the Imperials 
figure out what's happened. That means a lot of lifting capacity if we're going to do it 
quickly. You wouldn't happen to have any surplus cargo or stripped-down military ships 
lying around I could have, would you?"

 Solo gave him a strange look. "We don't have enough cargo capacity for the New 
Republic's normal business," he said. "I think I might have mentioned that to you."

 "Well, then, a loan, perhaps," Karrde persisted. "A stripped-down Mon Calamari Star 
Cruiser would do nicely."

 "I'm sure it would," Solo returned with more than a hint of sarcasm. "I'll see what I can 
do."

 The canopy dropped smoothly down over them and sealed in place. Karrde stepped 
back, and with a whine of repulsorlifts, the airspeeder rose into the sky. Orienting itself, it 
shot off toward the forest.

 Karrde watched it go, wondering if that last suggestion had been too little too late. But 
perhaps not. Solo was the type to hold debts of honor sacred¢something he'd probably 
picked up from his Wookiee friend somewhere along the line. If he could find a spare 
Star Cruiser, he'd likely send it along.

 And once here, it would be easy enough to steal from whatever handlers Solo sent with 
it. Perhaps such a gift would help assuage Grand Admiral Thrawn's inevitable anger over 
what had happened here today.

 But then, perhaps it wouldn't.

 Karrde looked back at the ruins of the collapsed arch, a shiver running through him. No, 
a warship wasn't going to help. Not on this. Thrawn had lost too much here to simply 
shrug it off as the fortunes of war. He would be back... and he would be coming for 
blood.

 And for perhaps the first time in his life, Karrde felt the unpleasant stirrings of genuine 
fear.

 In the distance, the airspeeder disappeared over the forest canopy. Karrde turned and 
gave Hyllyard City one final, lingering look. One way or the other, he knew he would 
never see it again.

  

 Luke got Lando settled into one of theFalcon 's bunks while Han and a couple of 
Karrde's men busied themselves outside getting a tow cable attached to the X-wing. 
TheFalcon 's medical package was fairly primitive, but it was up to the task of cleaning 
and bandaging a blaster burn. A complete healing job would have to wait until they could 
get him to a bacta tank, but for the moment he seemed comfortable enough. Leaving 
Artoo and Threepio to watch over him¢despite his protestations that he didn't need 
watching over and, furthermore, had had enough of Threepio¢Luke returned to the 
cockpit just as the ship lifted off.

 "Any problems with the tow cable?" he asked, sliding into the copilot's seat.

 "Not so far," Han said, leaning forward and looking all around them as theFalcon 
cleared the trees. "The extra weight's not bothering us, anyway. We should be all right."

 "Good. You expecting company?"

 "You never know," Han said, giving the sky one last look before settling back into his 
seat and gunning the repulsorlifts. "Karrde said there were still a couple of Chariots and a 
few speeder bikes unaccounted for. One of them might have figured that a last-ditch 
suicide run was better than having to go back to the Grand Admiral and report."

 Luke stared at him. "Grand Admiral?" he asked carefully.

 Han's lip twisted. "Yeah. That's who seems to be running the show now for the Empire."

 A cold chill ran up Luke's back. "I thought we'd accounted for all the Grand Admirals."

 "Me, too. We must have missed one."

 And abruptly, right in the middle of Han's last word, Luke felt a surge of awareness and 
strength fill him. As if he were waking up from a deep sleep, or stepping from a dark 
room into the light, or suddenly understanding the universe again.

 The Force was again with him.

 He took a deep breath, eyes flicking across the control board for the altimeter. Just over 
twelve kilometers. Karrde had been right¢those ysalamiri did, indeed, reinforce one 
another. "I don't suppose you got a name," he murmured.

 "Karrde wouldn't give it to me," Han said, throwing a curious frown in Luke's direction. 
"Maybe we can bargain the use of that Star Cruiser he wants for it. You okay?"

 "I'm fine," Luke assured him. "I just¢it's like being able to see again after having been 
blind."

 Han snorted under his breath. "Yeah, I know how that is," he said wryly.

 "I guess you would." Luke looked at him. "I didn't get a chance to say this earlier... but 
thanks for coming after me."

 Han waved it away. "No charge. AndI didn't get a chance to say it earlier¢" he glanced 
at Luke again "¢but you look like something the proom dragged in."

 "My wonderful disguise," Luke told him, touching his face gingerly. "Mara assures me 
it'll wear off in a few more hours."

 "Yeah¢Mara," Han said. "You and she seemed to be hitting it off pretty well there."

 Luke grimaced. "Don't count on it," he said. "A matter of having a common enemy, 
that's all. First the forest, then the Imperials."

 He could sense Han casting around for a way to ask the next question, decided to save 
him the trouble. "She wants to kill me," he told the other.

 "Any idea why?"

 Luke opened his mouth... and, to his own surprise, closed it again. There wasn't any 
particular reason not to tell Han what he knew about Mara's past¢certainly no reason he 
could think of. And yet, somehow, he felt a strangely compelling reluctance to do so. "It's 
something personal," he said at last.

 Han threw him an odd look. "Somethingpersonal? How personal can a death mark get?"

 "It's not a death mark," Luke insisted. "It's something¢well,personal ."

 Han gazed at him a moment longer, then turned back to his piloting. "Oh," he said.

 TheFalcon had cleared the atmosphere now and was gunning for deep space. From this 
