 
 

 

 Timothy Zahn

 Heir to the Empire

  

 Book 1 of the "Thrawn" trilogy

  

 Chapter 1

 "Captain Pellaeon?" a voice called down the portside crew pit through the hum of 
background conversation. "Message from the sentry line: the scoutships have just come 
out of lightspeed."

 Pellaeon, leaning over the shoulder of the man at theChimaera 's bridge engineering 
monitor, ignored the shout. "Trace this line for me," he ordered, tapping a light pen at the 
schematic on the display.

 The engineer threw a questioning glance up at him. "Sir...?"

 "I heard him," Pellaeon said. "You have an order, Lieutenant."

 "Yes, sir," the other said carefully, and keyed for the trace.

 "Captain Pellaeon?" the voice repeated, closer this time. Keeping his eyes on the 
engineering display, Pellaeon waited until he could hear the sound of the approaching 
footsteps. Then, with all the regal weight that fifty years spent in the Imperial Fleet gave 
to a man, he straightened up and turned.

 The young duty officer's brisk walk faltered; came to an abrupt halt. "Uh, sir¢" He 
looked into Pellaeon's eyes and his voice faded away.

 Pellaeon let the silence hang in the air for a handful of heartbeats, long enough for those 
nearest to notice. "This is not a cattle market in Shaum Hii, Lieutenant Tschel," he said at 
last, keeping his voice calm but icy cold. "This is the bridge of an Imperial Star 
Destroyer. Routine information is not¢repeat,not ¢simply shouted in the general direction 
of its intended recipient. Is that clear?"

 Tschel swallowed. "Yes, sir."

 Pellaeon held his eyes a few seconds longer, then lowered his head in a slight nod. 
"Now. Report."

 "Yes, sir." Tschel swallowed again. "We've just received word from the sentry ships, sir: 
the scouts have returned from their scan raid on the Obroa-skai system."

 "Very good," Pellaeon nodded. "Did they have any trouble?"

 "Only a little, sir¢the natives apparently took exception to them pulling a dump of their 
central library system. The wing commander said there was some attempt at pursuit, but 
that he lost them."

 "I hope so," Pellaeon said grimly. Obroa-skai held a strategic position in the borderland 
regions, and intelligence reports indicated that theNewRepublic was making a strong bid 
for its membership and support. If they'd had armed emissary ships there at the time of 
the raid....

 Well, he'd know soon enough. "Have the wing commander report to the bridge ready 
room with his report as soon as the ships are aboard," he told Tschel. "And have the 
sentry line go to yellow alert. Dismissed."

 "Yes, sir." Spinning around with a reasonably good imitation of a proper military turn, 
the lieutenant headed back toward the communications console.

 Theyoung lieutenant... which was, Pellaeon thought with a trace of old bitterness, where 
the problem really lay. In the old days¢at the height of the Empire's power¢it would have 
been inconceivable for a man as young as Tschel to serve as a bridge officer aboard a 
ship like theChimaera . Now¢

 He looked down at the equally young man at the engineering monitor. Now, in contrast, 
theChimaera had virtually no one aboard except young men and women.

 Slowly, Pellaeon let his eyes sweep across the bridge, feeling the echoes of old anger 
and hatred twist through his stomach. There had been many commanders in the Fleet, he 
knew, who had seen the Emperor's original Death Star as a blatant attempt to bring the 
Empire's vast military power more tightly under his direct control, just as he'd already 
done with the Empire's political power. The fact that he'd ignored the battle station's 
proven vulnerability and gone ahead with a second Death Star had merely reinforced that 
suspicion. There would have been few in the Fleet's upper echelons who would have 
genuinely mourned its loss... if it hadn't, in its death throes, taken the Super Star 
DestroyerExecutor with it.

 Even after five years Pellaeon couldn't help but wince at the memory of that image: 
theExecutor , out of control, colliding with the unfinished Death Star and then 
disintegrating completely in the battle station's massive explosion. The loss of the ship 
itself had been bad enough; but the fact that it was theExecutor had made it far worse. 
That particular Super Star Destroyer had been Darth Vader's personal ship, and despite 
the Dark Lord's legendary¢and often lethal¢capriciousness, serving aboard it had long 
been perceived as the quick line to promotion.

 Which meant that when theExecutor died, so also did a disproportionate fraction of the 
best young and midlevel officers and crewers.

 The Fleet had never recovered from that fiasco. With theExecutor 's leadership gone, the 
battle had quickly turned into a confused rout, with several other Star Destroyers being 
lost before the order to withdraw had finally been given. Pellaeon himself, taking 
command when theChimera 's former captain was killed, had done what he could to hold 
things together; but despite his best efforts, they had never regained the initiative against 
the Rebels. Instead, they had been steadily pushed back... until they were here.

 Here, in what had once been the backwater of the Empire, with barely a quarter of its 
former systems still under nominal Imperial control. Here, aboard a Star Destroyer 
manned almost entirely by painstakingly trained but badly inexperienced young people, 
many of them conscripted from their home worlds by force or threat of force.

 Here, under the command of possibly the greatest military mind the Empire had ever 
seen.

 Pellaeon smiled¢a tight, wolfish smile¢as he again looked around his bridge. No, the 
end of the Empire was not yet. As the arrogantly self-proclaimedNewRepublic would 
soon discover. He glanced at his watch. Two-fifteen. Grand Admiral Thrawn would be 
meditating in his command room now... and if Imperial procedure frowned on shouting 
across the bridge, it frowned even harder on interrupting a Grand Admiral's meditation by 
intercom. One spoke to him in person, or one did not speak to him at all. "Continue 
tracing those lines," Pellaeon ordered the engineering lieutenant as he headed for the 
door. "I'll be back shortly."

 The Grand Admiral's new command room was two levels below the bridge, in a space 
that had once housed the former commander's luxury entertainment suite. When Pellaeon 
had found Thrawn¢or rather, when the Grand Admiral had found him¢one of his first acts 
had been to take over the suite and convert it into what was essentially a secondary 
bridge.

 A secondary bridge, meditation room... and perhaps more. It was no secret aboard 
theChimaera that since the recent refitting had been completed the Grand Admiral had 
been spending a great deal of his time here. Whatwas secret was what exactly he did 
during those long hours.

 Stepping to the door, Pellaeon straightened his tunic and braced himself. Perhaps he was 
about to find out. "Captain Pellaeon to see Grand Admiral Thrawn," he announced. "I 
have informa¢"

 The door slid open before he'd finished speaking. Mentally preparing himself, Pellaeon 
stepped into the dimly lit entry room. He glanced around, saw nothing of interest, and 
started for the door to the main chamber, five paces ahead.

 A touch of air on the back of his neck was his only warning. "Captain Pellaeon," a deep, 
gravelly, catlike voice mewed into his ear.

 Pellaeon jumped and spun around, cursing both himself and the short, wiry creature 
standing less than half a meter away. "Blast it, Rukh," he snarled. "What do you think 
you're doing?"

 For a long moment Rukh just looked up at him, and Pellaeon felt a drop of sweat trickle 
down his back. With his large dark eyes, protruding jaw, and glistening needle teeth, 
Rukh was even more of a nightmare in the dimness than he was in normal lighting.

 Especially to someone like Pellaeon, who knew what Thrawn used Rukh and his fellow 
Noghri for.

 "I'm doing my job," Rukh said at last. He stretched his thin arm almost casually out 
toward the inner door, and Pellaeon caught just a glimpse of the slender assassin's knife 
before it vanished somehow into the Noghri's sleeve. His hand closed, then opened again, 
steel-wire muscles moving visibly beneath his dark gray skin. "You may enter."

 "Thankyou," Pellaeon growled. Straightening his tunic again, he turned back to the door. 
It opened at his approach, and he stepped through¢

 Into a softly lit art museum.

 He stopped short, just inside the room, and looked around in astonishment. The walls 
and domed ceiling were covered with flat paintings and planics, a few of them vaguely 
human-looking but most of distinctly alien origin. Various sculptures were scattered 
around, some freestanding, others on pedestals. In the center of the room was a double 
circle of repeater displays, the outer ring slightly higher than the inner ring. Both sets of 
displays, at least from what little Pellaeon could see, also seemed to be devoted to 
pictures of artwork.

 And in the center of the double circle, seated in a duplicate of the Admiral's Chair on the 
bridge, was Grand Admiral Thrawn.

 He sat motionlessly, his shimmery blue-black hair glinting in the dim light, his pale blue 
skin looking cool and subdued and very alien on his otherwise human frame. His eyes 
were nearly closed as he leaned back against the headrest, only a glint of red showing 
between the lids.

 Pellaeon licked his lips, suddenly unsure of the wisdom of having invaded Thrawn's 
sanctum like this. If the Grand Admiral decided to be annoyed....

 "Come in, Captain," Thrawn said, his quietly modulated voice cutting through 
Pellaeon's thoughts. Eyes still closed to slits, he waved a hand in a small and precisely 
measured motion. "What do you think?"

 "It's... very interesting, sir," was all Pellaeon could come up with as he walked over to 
the outer display circle.

 "All holographic, of course," Thrawn said, and Pellaeon thought he could hear a note of 
regret in the other's voice. "The sculptures and flats both. Some of them are lost; many of 
the others are on planets now occupied by the Rebellion."

 "Yes, sir," Pellaeon nodded. "I thought you'd want to know, Admiral, that the scouts 
have returned from the Obroa-skai system. The wing commander will be ready for 
debriefing in a few minutes."

 Thrawn nodded. "Were they able to tap into the central library system?"

 "They got at least a partial dump," Pellaeon told him. "I don't know yet if they were able 
to complete it¢apparently, there was some attempt at pursuit. The wing commander 
thinks he lost them, though."

 For a moment Thrawn was silent. "No," he said. "No, I don't believe he has. Particularly 
not if the pursuers were from the Rebellion." Taking a deep breath, he straightened in his 
chair and, for the first time since Pellaeon had entered, opened his glowing red eyes.

 Pellaeon returned the other's gaze without flinching, feeling a small flicker of pride at 
the achievement. Many of the Emperor's top commanders and courtiers had never learned 
to feel comfortable with those eyes. Or with Thrawn himself, for that matter. Which was 
probably why the Grand Admiral had spent so much of his career out in the Unknown 
Regions, working to bring those still-barbaric sections of the galaxy under Imperial 
control. His brilliant successes had won him the title of Warlord and the right to wear the 
white uniform of Grand Admiral¢the only nonhuman ever granted that honor by the 
Emperor.

 Ironically, it had also made him all the more indispensable to the frontier campaigns. 
Pellaeon had often wondered how the Battle of Endor would have ended if Thrawn, not 
Vader, had been commanding theExecutor . "Yes, sir," he said. "I've ordered the sentry 
line onto yellow alert. Shall we go to red?"

 "Not yet," Thrawn said. "We should still have a few minutes. Tell me, Captain, do you 
know anything about art?"

 "Ah... not very much," Pellaeon managed, thrown a little by the sudden change of 
subject. "I've never really had much time to devote to it."

 "You should make the time." Thrawn gestured to a part of the inner display circle to his 
right. "Saffa paintings," he identified them. "Circa 1550 to 2200, Pre-Empire Date. Note 
how the style changes¢right here¢at the first contact with the Thennqora. Over there¢" he 
pointed to the left-hand wall "¢are examples of Paonidd extrassa art. Note the similarities 
with the early Saffa work, and also the mid-eighteenth-century Pre-Em Vaathkree 
flatsculp."

 "Yes, I see," Pellaeon said, not entirely truthfully. "Admiral, shouldn't we be¢?"

 He broke off as a shrill whistle split the air. "Bridge to Grand Admiral Thrawn," 
Lieutenant Tschel's taut voice called over the intercom. "Sir, we're under attack!"

 Thrawn tapped the intercom switch. "This is Thrawn," he said evenly. "Go to red alert, 
and tell me what we've got. Calmly, if possible."

 "Yes, sir." The muted alert lights began flashing, and Pellaeon could hear the sound of 
the klaxons baying faintly outside the room. "Sensors are picking up four New Republic 
Assault Frigates," Tschel continued, his voice tense but under noticeably better control. 
"Plus at least three wings of X-wing fighters. Symmetric cloud-vee formation, coming in 
on our scoutships' vector."

 Pellaeon swore under his breath. A single Star Destroyer, with a largely inexperienced 
crew, against four Assault Frigates and their accompanying fighters... "Run engines to 
full power," he called toward the intercom. "Prepare to make the jump to lightspeed." He 
took a step toward the door¢

 "Belay that jump order, Lieutenant," Thrawn said, still glacially calm. "TIE fighter 
crews to their stations; activate deflector shields."

 Pellaeon spun back to him. "Admiral¢"

 Thrawn cut him off with an upraised hand. "Come here, Captain," the Grand Admiral 
ordered. "Let's take a look, shall we?"

 He touched a switch; and abruptly, the art show was gone. Instead, the room had 
become a miniature bridge monitor, with helm, engine, and weapons readouts on the 
walls and double display circle. The open space had become a holographic tactical 
display; in one corner a flashing sphere indicated the invaders. The wall display nearest 
to it gave an ETA estimate of twelve minutes.

 "Fortunately, the scoutships have enough of a lead not to be in danger themselves," 
Thrawn commented. "So. Let's see what exactly we're dealing with. Bridge: order the 
three nearest sentry ships to attack."

 "Yes, sir."

 Across the room, three blue dots shifted out of the sentry line onto intercept vectors. 
From the corner of his eye Pellaeon saw Thrawn lean forward in his seat as the Assault 
Frigates and accompanying X-wings shifted in response. One of the blue dots winked 
out¢

 "Excellent," Thrawn said, leaning back in his seat. "That will do, Lieutenant. Pull the 
other two sentry ships back, and order the Sector Four line to scramble out of the 
invaders' vector."

 "Yes, sir," Tschel said, sounding more than a little confused.

 A confusion Pellaeon could well understand. "Shouldn't we at least signal the rest of the 
Fleet?" he suggested, hearing the tightness in his voice. "TheDeath's Head could be here 
in twenty minutes, most of the others in less than an hour."

 "The last thing we want to do right now is bring in more of our ships, Captain," Thrawn 
said. He looked up at Pellaeon, and a faint smile touched his lips. "After all, theremay be 
survivors, and we wouldn't want the Rebellion learning about us. Would we."

 He turned back to his displays. "Bridge: I want a twenty-degree port yaw rotation¢bring 
us flat to the invaders' vector, superstructure pointing at them. As soon as they're within 
the outer perimeter, the Sector Four sentry line is to re-form behind them and jam all 
transmissions."

 "Y-yes, sir. Sir¢?"

 "You don't have to understand, Lieutenant," Thrawn said, his voice abruptly cold. "Just 
obey."

 "Yes, sir."

 Pellaeon took a careful breath as the displays showed theChimaera rotating as per 
orders. "I'm afraid I don't understand, either, Admiral," he said. "Turning our 
superstructure toward them¢"

 Again, Thrawn stopped him with an upraised hand. "Watch and learn, Captain. That's 
fine, bridge: stop rotation and hold position here. Drop docking bay deflector shields, 
boost power to all others. TIE fighter squadrons: launch when ready. Head directly away 
from theChimaera for two kilometers, then sweep around in open cluster formation. 
Backfire speed, zonal attack pattern."

 He got an acknowledgment, then looked up at Pellaeon. "Do you understand now, 
Captain?"

 Pellaeon pursed his lips. "I'm afraid not," he admitted. "I see now that the reason you 
turned the ship was to give the fighters some exit cover, but the rest is nothing but a 
classic Marg Sabl closure maneuver. They're not going to fall for anything that simple."

 "On the contrary," Thrawn corrected coolly. "Not only will they fall for it, they'll be 
utterly destroyed by it. Watch, Captain. And learn."

 The TIE fighters launched, accelerating away from theChimaera and then leaning hard 
into etheric rudders to sweep back around it like the spray of some exotic fountain. The 
invading ships spotted the attackers and shifted vectors¢

 Pellaeon blinked. "What in the Empire are theydoing ?"

 "They're trying the only defense they know of against a Marg Sabl," Thrawn said, and 
there was no mistaking the satisfaction in his voice. "Or, to be more precise, the only 
defense they are psychologically capable of attempting." He nodded toward the flashing 
sphere. "You see, Captain, there's an Elom commanding that force... and Elomin simply 
cannot handle the unstructured attack profile of a properly executed Marg Sabl."

 Pellaeon stared at the invaders, still shifting into their utterly useless defense stance... 
and slowly it dawned on him what Thrawn had just done. "That sentry ship attack a few 
minutes ago," he said. "You were able to tell fromthat that those were Elomin ships?"

 "Learn about art, Captain," Thrawn said, his voice almost dreamy. "When you 
understand a species' art, you understand that species."

 He straightened in his chair. "Bridge: bring us to flank speed. Prepare to join the attack."

 An hour later, it was all over.

  

 The ready room door slid shut behind the wing commander, and Pellaeon gazed back at 
the map still on the display. "Sounds like Obroa-skai is a dead end," he said regretfully. 
"There's no way we'll be able to spare the manpower that much pacification would cost."

 "For now, perhaps," Thrawn agreed. "But only for now."

 Pellaeon frowned across the table at him. Thrawn was fiddling with a data card, rubbing 
it absently between finger and thumb, as he stared out the view port at the stars. A strange 
smile played about his lips. "Admiral?" he asked carefully.

 Thrawn turned his head, those glowing eyes coming to rest on Pellaeon. "It's the second 
piece of the puzzle, Captain," he said softly, holding up the data card. "The piece I've 
been searching for now for over a year."

 Abruptly, he turned to the intercom, jabbed it on. "Bridge, this is Grand Admiral 
Thrawn. Signal theDeath's Head; inform Captain Harbid we'll be temporarily leaving the 
Fleet. He's to continue making tactical surveys of the local systems and pulling data 
dumps wherever possible. Then set course for a planet called Myrkr¢the nav computer 
has its location."

 The bridge acknowledged, and Thrawn turned back to Pellaeon. "You seem lost, 
Captain," he suggested. "I take it you've never heard of Myrkr."

 Pellaeon shook his head, trying without success to read the Grand Admiral's expression. 
"Should I have?"

 "Probably not. Most of those who have been smugglers, malcontents, and otherwise 
useless dregs of the galaxy."

 He paused, taking a measured sip from the mug at his elbow¢a strong Forvish ale, from 
the smell of it¢and Pellaeon forced himself to remain silent. Whatever the Grand Admiral 
was going to tell him, he was obviously going to tell it in his own way and time. "I ran 
across an offhand reference to it some seven years ago," Thrawn continued, setting his 
mug back down. "What caught my attention was the fact that, although the planet had 
been populated for at least three hundred years, both theOldRepublic and the Jedi of that 
time had always left it strictly alone." He cocked one blue-black eyebrow slightly. "What 
would you infer from that, Captain?"

 Pellaeon shrugged. "That it's a frontier planet, somewhere too far away for anyone to 
care about."

 "Very good, Captain. That was my first assumption, too... except that it's not. Myrkr is, 
in fact, no more than a hundred fifty light-years from here¢close to our border with the 
Rebellion and well within theOldRepublic 's boundaries." Thrawn dropped his eyes to the 
data card still in his hand. "No, the actual explanation is far more interesting. And far 
more useful."

 Pellaeon looked at the data card, too. "And that explanation became the first piece of 
this puzzle of yours?"

 Thrawn smiled at him. "Again, Captain, very good. Yes. Myrkr¢or more precisely, one 
of its indigenous animals¢was the first piece. The second is on a world called Wayland." 
He waved the data card. "A world for which, thanks to the Obroans, I finally have a 
location."

 "I congratulate you," Pellaeon said, suddenly tired of this game "May I ask just what 
exactly this puzzle is?"

 Thrawn smiled¢a smile that sent a shiver up Pellaeon's back. "Why the only puzzle 
worth solving, of course," the Grand Admiral said softly. "The complete, total, and utter 
destruction of the Rebellion."

  

 Chapter 2

 "Luke?"

 The voice came softly but insistently. Pausing amid the familiar landscape of 
Tatooine¢familiar, yet oddly distorted¢Luke Skywalker turned to look.

 An equally familiar figure stood there watching him. "Hello, Ben," Luke said, his voice 
sounding sluggish in his ears. "Been a long time."

 "It has indeed," Obi-wan Kenobi said gravely. "And I'm afraid that it will be longer still 
until the next time. I've come to say good-bye, Luke."

 The landscape seemed to tremble; and abruptly, a small part of Luke's mind 
remembered that he was asleep. Asleep in his suite in theImperialPalace , and dreaming 
of Ben Kenobi.

 "No, I'm not a dream," Ben assured him, answering Luke's unspoken thought. "But the 
distances separating us have become too great for me to appear to you in any other way. 
Now, even this last path is being closed to me."

 "No," Luke heard himself say. "You can't leave us, Ben. We need you."

 Ben's eyebrows lifted slightly, and a hint of his old smile touched his lips. "You don't 
need me, Luke. You are a Jedi, strong in the Force." The smile faded, and for a moment 
his eyes seemed to focus on something Luke couldn't see. "At any rate," he added quietly, 
"the decision is not mine to make. I have lingered too long already, and can no longer 
postpone my journey from this life to what lies beyond."

 A memory stirred: Yoda on his deathbed, and Luke pleading with him not to die.Strong 
am I in the Force, the Jedi Master had told him softly.But not that strong.

 "It is the pattern of all life to move on," Ben reminded him. "You, too, will face this 
same journey one day." Again, his attention drifted away, then returned. "You are strong 
in the Force, Luke, and with perseverance and discipline you will grow stronger still." 
His gaze hardened. "But you must never relax your guard. The Emperor is gone, but the 
dark side is still powerful. Never forget that."

 "I won't," Luke promised.

 Ben's face softened, and again he smiled. "You will yet face great dangers, Luke," he 
said. "But you will also find new allies, at times and places where you expect them least."

 "New allies?" Luke echoed. "Who are they?"

 The vision seemed to waver and become fainter. "And now, farewell," Ben said, as if he 
hadn't heard the question. "I loved you as a son, and as a student, and as a friend. Until 
we meet again, may the Force be with you."

 "Ben¢!"

 But Ben turned, and the image faded... and in the dream, Luke knew he was gone.Then I 
am alone, he told himself.I am the last of the Jedi.

 He seemed to hear Ben's voice, faint and indistinct, as if from a great distance. "Not the 
last of the old Jedi, Luke. The first of the new."

 The voice trailed off into silence, and was gone... and Luke woke up.

 For a moment he just lay there, staring at the dim lights of theImperialCity playing 
across the ceiling above his bed and struggling through the sleep-induced disorientation. 
The disorientation, and an immense weight of sadness that seemed to fill the core of his 
being. First Uncle Owen and Aunt Beru had been murdered; then Darth Vader, his real 
father, had sacrificed his own life for Luke's; and now even Ben Kenobi's spirit had been 
taken away.

 For the third time, he'd been orphaned.

 With a sigh, he slid out from under the blankets and pulled on his robe and slippers. His 
suite contained a small kitchenette, and it took only a few minutes to fix himself a drink, 
a particularly exotic concoction Lando had introduced him to on his last visit to 
Coruscant. Then, attaching his lightsaber to his robe sash, he headed up to the roof.

 He had argued strongly against moving the center of theNewRepublic here to 
Coruscant; had argued even more strongly against setting up their fledgling government 
in the oldImperialPalace . The symbolism was all wrong, for one thing, particularly for a 
group which¢in his opinion¢already had a tendency to pay too much attention to 
symbols.

 But despite all its drawbacks, he had to admit that the view from the top of the Palace 
was spectacular.

 For a few minutes he stood at the roof's edge, leaning against the chest-high wrought 
stone railing and letting the cool night breeze ruffle his hair. Even in the middle of the 
night theImperialCity was a bustle of activity, with the lights of vehicles and streets 
intertwining to form a sort of flowing work of art. Overhead, lit by both the city lights 
and those of occasional airspeeders flitting through them, the low-lying clouds were a 
dim sculptured ceiling stretching in all directions, with the same apparent endlessness as 
the city itself. Far to the south, he could just make out theManaraiMountains , their 
snow-covered peaks illuminated, like the clouds, largely by reflected light from the city.

 He was gazing at the mountains when, twenty meters behind him, the door into the 
Palace was quietly opened.

 Automatically, his hand moved toward his lightsaber; but the motion had barely begun 
before it stopped. The sense of the creature coming through the doorway... "I'm over here, 
Threepio," he called.

 He turned to see C-3PO shuffling his way across the roof toward him, radiating the 
droid's usual mixture of relief and concern. "Hello, Master Luke," he said, tilting his head 
to look at the cup in Luke's hand. "I'm terribly sorry to disturb you."

 "That's all right," Luke told him. "I just wanted some fresh air, that's all."

 "Are you certain?" Threepio asked. "Though of course I don't mean to pry."

 Despite his mood, Luke couldn't help but smile. Threepio's attempts to be 
simultaneously helpful, inquisitive, and polite never quite came off. Not without looking 
vaguely comical, anyway. "I'm just a little depressed, I guess," he told the droid, turning 
back to gaze out over the city again. "Putting together a real, functioning government is a 
lot harder than I expected. Harder than most of the Council members expected, too." He 
hesitated. "Mostly, I guess I'm missing Ben tonight."

 For a moment Threepio was silent. "He was always very kind to me," he said at last. 
"And also to Artoo, of course."

 Luke raised his cup to his lips, hiding another smile behind it. "You have a unique 
perspective on the universe, Threepio," he said.

 From the corner of his eye, he saw Threepio stiffen. "I hope I didn't offend you, sir," the 
droid said anxiously. "That was certainly not my intent."

 "You didn't offend me," Luke assured him. "As a matter of fact, you might have just 
delivered Ben's last lesson to me."

 "I beg your pardon?"

 Luke sipped at his drink. "Governments and entire planets are important, Threepio. But 
when you sift everything down, they're all just made up of people."

 There was a brief pause. "Oh," Threepio said.

