
 The platform didn't look nearly big enough to accommodate a ship the size of theLady 
Luck, but a quick glance back at the city itself showed that the apparent smallness was 
merely a trick of the tree's deceptive scale. By the time Chewbacca put them down on the 
fire-blackened wood, in fact, it was clear that the platform could not only easily handle 
theLady Luck, but probably full-sized passenger liners, as well.

 Or, for that matter, Imperial Strike Cruisers. Perhaps, Leia decided, she shouldn't inquire 
too deeply into the circumstances of the platform's construction.

 She had half expected the Wookiees to send a delegation out to meet her, and she turned 
out to have been half right. Two of the giant aliens were waiting beside theLady Luck as 
Chewbacca lowered the entry ramp, indistinguishable to her untrained eye except for 
their slightly different heights and the noticeably different designs of the wide baldrics 
curving from shoulder to waist across their brown fur. The taller of the two, his baldric 
composed of gold-threaded tan, took a step forward as Leia headed down the ramp. She 
continued toward him, using all the calming Jedi techniques she knew, praying that this 
wouldn't be as awkward as she was very much afraid it would be. Chewbacca was hard 
enough for her to understand, and he'd been living out among humans for decades. A 
native Wookiee, speaking a native dialect, was likely to be totally incomprehensible.

 The tall Wookiee bowed his head slightly and opened his mouth. Leia braced herself¢

 [I to you, Leiaorganasolo, bring greetings,] he roared. [I to Rwookrrorro welcome you.]

 Leia felt her jaw drop in astonishment. "Ah... thank you," she managed. 
"I'm¢ah¢honored to be here."

 [As we by yourr presence arre honored,] he growled politely. [I am Ralrracheen. You 
may find it easierr to call me Ralrra.]

 "I'm honored to meet you," Leia nodded, still feeling a little dazed by it all. Apart from 
the odd extended growling of his finalr sounds, Ralrra's Wookiee speech was perfectly 
understandable. Listening to him, in fact, it was as if all the static she'd always had to 
plow through had suddenly cleared away. She could feel her face warming, and hoped 
her surprise didn't show.

 Apparently, it did. Beside her, Chewbacca was urf-urf-urfing quietly again. "Let me 
guess," she suggested dryly, looking up at him. "You've had a speech impediment all 
these years and never thought to mention it to me?"

 Chewbacca laughed even louder. [Chewbacca speaks most excellently,] Ralrra told her. 
[It is I who has a speech impediment. Strangely, it is the kind of trouble that humans find 
easierr to understand.]

 "I see," Leia said, though she didn't entirely. "Were you an ambassador, then?"

 Abruptly, the air around her seemed to grow chilly. [I was a slave to the Empirre,] 
Ralrra growled softly. [As was Chewbacca also, beforre Hansolo freed him. My captorrs 
found me useful, to speak with the otherr Wookiee slaves.]

 Leia shivered. "I'm sorry," was all she could think of to say.

 [You must not be,] he insisted. [My role gave me much information about the Empirre's 
forces. Information that proved useful when yourr Alliance freed us.]

 Abruptly, Leia realized that Chewbacca was no longer standing at her side. To her 
shock, she saw that he was locked in a death grip with the other Wookiee, his bowcaster 
trapped uselessly against his shoulder by the other's massive arm. "Chewie!" she snapped, 
hand dropping to the blaster belted at her side.

 She'd barely gotten hold of it, though, before Ralrra's shaggy hand landed in an iron grip 
on top of hers. [Do not disturb them,] the Wookiee told her firmly. [Chewbacca and 
Salporin have been friends since childhood, and have not seen each otherr in many 
yearrs. Theirr greeting must not be interrupted.]

 "Sorry," Leia murmured, dropping her hand to her side and feeling like an idiot.

 [Chewbacca said in his message that you requirre sanctuary,] Ralrra continued, perhaps 
recognizing her embarrassment. [Come. I will show you the preparations we have made.]

 Leia's eyes flicked to Chewbacca and Salporin, still clinging to each other. "Perhaps we 
should wait for the others," she suggested, a little uncertainly.

 [Therre will be no dangerr.] Ralrra drew himself up to his full height. [Leiaorganasolo, 
you must understand. Without you and yourr people many of us would still be slaves to 
the Empirre. Slaves, orr dead at theirr hand. To you and yourr Republic we owe a life 
debt.]

 "Thank you," Leia said, feeling the last bit of residual tension draining away. There was 
a great deal about Wookiee culture and psychology that was still opaque to her; but the 
life debt, at least, she understood very well. Ralrra had formally committed himself to her 
safety now, that commitment backed up by Wookiee honor, tenacity, and raw strength.

 [Come,] Ralrra growled, gesturing toward what looked like an open-cage liftcar at the 
edge of the platform. [We will go to the village.]

 "Certainly," Leia said. "That reminds me¢I was going to ask how you keep the village in 
place. Do you use repulsorlifts?"

 [Come,] Ralrra said. [I will show you.]

  

 The village was not, in fact, being held up by repulsorlifts. Nor with unipods, tractor 
anchorlines, or any other clever scheme of modern technology. Which made it all the 
more sobering for Leia to realize that the Wookiees' method was, in its own way, more 
sophisticated than any of them.

 The village was held up by branches.

 [It was a great task, a village of this size to build,] Ralrra told her, waving a massive 
hand upward at the latticework above them. [Many of the branches at the level desired 
werre removed. Those which remained then grew strongerr and fasterr.]

 "It looks almost like a giant spiderweb," Leia commented, peering from the liftcar at the 
underside of the village and trying not to think about the kilometers of empty space 
directly beneath them. "How did you mesh them together like that?"

 [We did not. Through theirr own growth they arre a unity.]

 Leia blinked. "Excuse me?"

 [They have grown togetherr,] Ralrra explained. [When twowroshyr branches meet, they 
grow into one. Togetherr then they sprout new branches in all directions.]

 He growled something under his breath, a word or phrase for which Leia had no 
translation. [It is a living reminderr of the unity and strength of the Wookiee people,] he 
added, almost to himself.

 Leia nodded silently. It was also, she realized, a strong indication that all thewroshyr 
trees in this bunch were a single giant plant, with a unified or at least an intermixed root 
system. Did the Wookiees realize that? Or had their obvious reverence for the trees 
forbidden such thinking and research?

 Not that curiosity would help them all that much in this case. Dropping her gaze, she 
peered down into the hazy dimness beneath the liftcar. Somewhere down there were the 
shorterwroshyrs and hundreds of other types of trees that made up the vast jungles of 
Kashyyyk. Several different arboreal ecosystems were reputed to exist in the jungle, 
arranged in roughly horizontal layers descending toward the ground, each layer more 
deadly than the one above. She didn't know whether the Wookiees had ever even made it 
all the way down to the surface; it was for sure that no one who had would have taken the 
time for leisurely botanical studies.

 [They arre calledkroyies,] Ralrra said.

 Leia blinked at the odd non sequitur. But even as she opened her mouth to ask what he 
was talking about, she spotted the double wedge of birds flying swiftly through the sky 
beneath them. "Those birds?" she asked.

 [Yes. Once they werre a prize food to the Wookiee people. Now even the poorr may eat 
them.] He pointed toward the edge of the village above them, to the haze of light coming 
from the searchlights she'd seen during their approach. [Kroyieswill come to those lights,] 
he explained. [Hunterrs therre await them.]

 Leia nodded understanding; she'd seen visual lures of varying degrees of sophistication 
used to attract food animals on other worlds. "Don't all those clouds interfere with their 
effectiveness, though?"

 [Through the clouds they work best,] Ralrra said. [The clouds spread the light. Akroyie 
will see it from great distances and come.]

 As he spoke, the double wedge of birds banked sharply, climbing toward the clouds 
overhead and the lights playing against them. [Even so, you see. Tonight we shall 
perhaps dine on one of them.]

 "I'd like that," she said. "I remember Chewie saying once that they were delicious."

 [Then we must return to the village,] Ralrra said, touching the liftcar's control. With a 
creak of the cable, it started upward. [We had hoped to shelterr you in one of the morre 
luxurious homes,] he commented as they started upward. [But Chewbacca would not 
allow it.]

 He gestured, and for the first time Leia noticed the homes built directly into the tree 
beside them. Some of them were multistoried and quite elaborate; all of them seemed to 
open up directly onto empty space. "Chewbacca understands my preferences," she told 
Ralrra, suppressing a shiver. "I was wondering why the liftcar went this far down past the 
village proper."

 [The liftcarr is used mainly forr cargo transportation orr the ill,] Ralrra said. [Most 
Wookiees preferr to climb the trees naturally.]

 He held out a hand to her, palm up; and as the muscles under the skin and fur flexed, a 
set of wickedly curved claws slid into sight from hidden fingertip sheaths.

 Leia swallowed hard. "I didn't realize Wookiees had claws like those," she said. 
"Though I suppose I should have. Youare arboreal, after all."

 [To live among trees without them would be impossible,] Ralrra agreed. The claws 
retracted again, and the Wookiee waved the hand upward. [Even vine travel would be 
difficult without them.]

 "Vines?" Leia echoed, frowning up through the liftcar's transparent roof. She hadn't 
noticed any vines on the trees earlier, and didn't really see any now. Her eyes fell on the 
cable running from the liftcar up into the leaves and branches above...

 The darkgreen cable.

 "That cable?" she asked carefully, nodding toward it. "That's a vine?"

 [It akshyy vine is,] he assured her. [Do not worry about its strength. It is strongerr than 
composite cable material, and cannot even by blasterrs be cut. Too, it is self-repairing.]

 "I see," Leia said, staring at the vine and fighting hard against the sudden sense of panic. 
She'd flown all around the galaxy in hundreds of different types of airspeeders and 
spaceships without the slightest twinge of acrophobia, but this hanging out on the edge of 
nowhere without a solid powered cockpit around her was something else entirely. The 
warm sense of security she'd been feeling at being on Kashyyyk was starting to 
evaporate. "Have the vines ever broken?" she asked, trying to sound casual.

 [In the past, it sometimes happened,] Ralrra said. [Various parasites and fungi, if 
unchecked, can erode them. Now, we employ safeguards which ourr ancestorrs did not 
have. Liftcarrs such as this one contain emergency repulsorlift systems.]

 "Ah," Leia said, the momentary discomfort easing as she once again found herself 
feeling like a raw and not very bright diplomatic beginner. It was easy to forget that, 
despite their somewhat quaint-looking arboreal villages and their own animalistic 
appearance, Wookiees generally were quite at home with high technology.

 The liftcar rose above the level of the village floor. Chewbacca and Salporin were 
standing there waiting for them, the former fingering his bowcaster and giving the little 
twitches that Leia had learned to associate with impatience. Ralrra brought them to a stop 
at the level of the wide exit ramp and opened the door, Salporin stepping forward as he 
did so to offer Leia his hand in assistance.

 [We have made arrangements forr you and Chewbacca to stay at Salporin's home,] 
Ralrra said as they stepped out onto relatively solid ground again. [It is not farr. Therre 
arre transports available, if you wish.]

 Leia looked out across the nearest parts of the village. She wanted very much to walk, to 
get out among the people and start getting the feel of the place. But after all the effort 
they'd put into sneaking her onto Kashyyyk in the first place, parading herself in front of 
the whole population would probably not be the smartest thing to do. "A transport would 
probably be best," she told Ralrra.

 Chewbacca growled something as they came up to him. [She wished to see the village's 
structurre,] Ralrra told him. [We arre now ready to go.]

 Chewbacca gave another growl of displeasure, but returned his bowcaster to his 
shoulder and strode off without further comment toward a repulsor sled parked at the side 
of the road perhaps twenty meters away. Ralrra and Leia followed, with Salporin 
bringing up the rear. The houses and other buildings began right at the edge of the matted 
branches, Leia had already noted, without anything more substantial than a few 
twistedkshyy vines between them and empty space. Ralrra had implied that the homes 
clinging to the trees themselves were the more prestigious ones; perhaps those here at the 
edge belonged to the upper middle class. Idly, she looked at the nearest of them, glancing 
into the windows as they passed. A face moved into view in the shadows behind one of 
them, catching her eye¢

 "Chewie!" she gasped. Even as her hand darted for her blaster the face vanished. But 
there was no mistaking those bulging eyes and protruding jaw and steel-gray skin.

 Chewbacca was at her side in an instant, bowcaster in hand. "One of those creatures 
who attacked us on Bimmisaari is in there," she told him, reaching out with all the Jedi 
sense she could muster. Nothing. "At that window," she added, pointing with her blaster. 
"He was right there."

 Chewbacca barked an order, sliding his massive bulk between Leia and the house and 
easing her slowly backwards, his bowcaster weaving back and forth across the structure 
in a covering pattern. Ralrra and Salporin were already at the house, each carrying a pair 
of wicked-looking knives they'd pulled from somewhere. They took up flanking positions 
beside the front door; and with a brilliant flash from his bowcaster, Chewbacca shot the 
door in.

 From somewhere in toward the center of the village someone roared¢a long, ululating 
Wookiee howl of anger or alarm that seemed to echo from the buildings and massive 
trees. Even before Ralrra and Salporin had disappeared into the house the howl was being 
taken up by other voices, rising in number and volume until it seemed as if half the 
village had joined in. Leia found herself pressing against Chewbacca's hairy back, 
wincing at the sheer ferocity in that call and flashing back to the Bimmisaari marketplace 
reacting to her jewelry theft.

 Except that these weren't funny little yellow-clad Bimms. They were giant, violently 
strong Wookiees.

 A large crowd had begun to form by the time Ralrra and Salporin emerged from the 
house¢a crowd that Chewbacca paid no more attention to than he had the howling as he 
kept his eyes and bowcaster trained on the house. The other two Wookiees also ignored 
the crowd, disappearing around opposite sides of the house. They reappeared seconds 
later, their manner that of hunters who'd come up dry.

 "He was there," Leia insisted as they returned to where she and Chewbacca stood. "I 
saw him."

 [That may be true,] Ralrra said, slipping his knives back into hidden sheaths behind his 
baldric. Salporin, his attention still back on the house, kept his own knives ready. [But we 
found no trace of anyone.]

 Leia bit at her lip, eyes flicking across the area. There were no other houses near enough 
for the alien to have crossed to without her and Chewbacca seeing him. No cover of any 
sort, for that matter, on this side of the house. On the other side, there was nothing but the 
edge of the village.

 "He went over the edge," she realized suddenly. "He must have. Either worked his way 
under the village with climbing gear or else met a craft hovering down below."

 [That is unlikely,] Ralrra said, starting past her. [But possible. I will go down the 
liftcarr, to try and discoverr him.]

 Chewbacca reached a hand out to stop him, growling a negative. [You arre right,] Ralrra 
conceded, though clearly reluctantly. [Yourr safety, Leiaorganasolo, is the most 
important thing at this point. We will take you to safety first, and then make inquiries 
about this alien.]

 To safety.Leia gazed at the house, a shiver running up her back. And wondered if there 
would ever again be such a thing for her as safety.

  

 Chapter 18

 The trilling code, coming from somewhere far behind him, startled Luke up out of his 
dreamless sleep. "Okay, Artoo, I'm awake," he said groggily, reaching up to rub at his 
eyes. His knuckles bumped into the visor of his flight helmet, and the impact did a bit to 
dissipate the fog still swirling through his mind. He couldn't remember exactly the 
circumstances under which he'd gone into hibernation, but he had the distinct feeling that 
Artoo had brought him out too soon. "Is anything wrong?" he asked, trying to track down 
exactly what it was the droid was supposed to be doing.

 The trilling changed to an anxious-sounding warble. Still fighting to get his eyes 
properly focused, Luke searched out the computer scope for the translation. To his mild 
surprise, it was dark. As were all the rest of his instruments; and then it came back to 
him. He was trapped in deep space, with all the X-wing's systems shut down except 
power for Artoo and minimal life support for himself.

 And Artoo was supposed to be winding a new subspace radio antenna. Twisting a 
slightly stiff neck, he turned halfway around to look back at the droid, wondering what 
the problem was¢

 And felt his muscles twitch with surprise. There, bearing rapidly down on them, was 
another ship.

 He spun back around, fully awake now, hands jabbing for the bank of power switches 
and slapping them all on. But it was so much useless reflex. Even with shortcuts, it would 
still take nearly fifteen minutes to bring the X-wing's engines from a cold start to any 
serious possibility of flight, let alone combat. If the intruder was unfriendly...

 Using the emergency maneuvering jets, he got the X-wing turning slowly around to face 
the approaching ship. The scopes and sensors were starting to come back on line again, 
confirming what his eyes had already told him: his visitor was a midsized, slightly 
dilapidated-looking Corellian bulk freighter. Not the sort of ship the Imperials usually 
used, and there were certainly no Imperial markings on its hull.

 But under the circumstances, it was just as unlikely that it was an innocent freight 
handler, either. A pirate, perhaps? Luke reached out with the Force, trying to get a sense 
of the crew...

 Artoo warbled, and Luke glanced down at the computer scope. "Yes, I noticed that, 
too," Luke told him. "But a normal bulk freighter might be able to pull that kind of 
deceleration if it was empty. Why don't you do a quick analysis of the sensor readings, 
see if you can spot any weapons emplacements."

 The droid beeped an acknowledgment, and Luke gave the other instruments a quick 
scan. The primary laser cannon capacitors were at half charge now, with the main 
sublight drive about halfway through its preflight sequence.

 And the flashing radio signal indicated that he was being hailed.

 Bracing himself, Luke flipped on the receiver. "¢need assistance?" a cool female voice 
said. "Repeating: unidentified starfighter, this is the freighterWild Karrde . Do you need 
assistance?"

 "Wild Karrde, this is New Republic X-wing AA-589," Luke identified himself. "As a 
matter of fact, yes, I could use some help."

 "Acknowledged, X-wing," the other said. "What seems to be the problem?"

 "Hyperdrive," Luke told her, watching the ship closely as it continued its approach. A 
minute earlier he'd rotated to face the freighter's approach; the other pilot had responded 
with a slight sidling drift of her own, with the result that theWild Karrde was no longer in 
line with the X-wing's lasers. Probably just being cautious... but there were other 
possibilities. "I've lost both motivators," he continued. "Cracked shield cases, probably 
some other problems, too. I don't suppose you'd be carrying any spares?"

 "Not for a ship that size." There was a short pause. "I'm instructed to tell you that if 
you'd care to come aboard, we can offer you passage to our destination system."

 Luke reached out with the Force, trying to measure the sense behind the words. But if 
there was deceit there, he couldn't detect it. And even if there was, he had precious little 
choice. "Sounds good," he said. "Any chance you could take my ship, too?"

 "I doubt you could afford our shipping rates," the other told him dryly. "I'll check with 
the captain, but don't get your hopes up. We'd have to take it in tow, anyway¢our holds 
are pretty full at the moment."

 Luke felt his lip twitch. A fully loaded bulk freighter couldn't possibly have managed 
the deceleration profile Artoo had noted earlier. Either they were lying about that, or else 
that normal-looking drive system had undergone a complete and massive upgrading.

 Which made theWild Karrde either a smuggler, a pirate, or a disguised warship. And the 
New Republic had no disguised warships.

 The other pilot was talking again. "If you'll hold your present position, X-wing, we'll 
move up close enough to throw a force cylinder out to you," she said. "Unless you'd 
rather suit up and spacewalk across."

 "The cylinder sounds fastest," Luke said, deciding to try a light verbal probe. "I don't 
suppose either of us has any reason to hang around this place. How did you happen to 
wind up out here, anyway?"

 "We can handle a limited amount of baggage," the other went on, ignoring the question. 
"I imagine you'll want to bring your astromech droid along, too."

 So much for the light verbal probe. "Yes, I will," he told her.

 "All right, then, stand by. Incidentally, the captain says the transport fee will be five 
thousand."

 "Understood," Luke said, unstrapping his restraints. Opening the side pouches, he pulled 
out his gloves and helmet seal and folded them into his flight suit's chest pockets where 
he'd have quick access to them. A force cylinder was relatively foolproof, but accidents 
could always happen. Besides which, if theWild Karrde 's crew was hoping to pick 
themselves up a free X-wing, shutting the cylinder down halfway through the operation 
would be the simplest and least messy way to dispose of him.

 The crew. Luke paused, straining his senses toward the ship moving steadily toward 
him. There was something wrong there; something he could feel but couldn't quite track 
down.

 Artoo warbled anxiously. "No, she didn't answer the question," Luke agreed. "But I can't 
think of any legitimate reason for them to be out this far. Can you?"

 The droid gave a soft, electronic moan. "Agreed," Luke nodded. "But refusing the offer 
doesn't buy us anything at all. We'll just have to stay alert."

 Reaching into the other side pouch, he pulled out his blaster, checked its power level, 
and slid it into the holster pocket built into his flight suit. His comlink went into another 
pocket, though what use it would be aboard theWild Karrde he couldn't imagine. The 
emergency survival pack went around his waist, awkward to fasten in the cramped 
quarters. And last, he pulled out his lightsaber and fastened it to his belt.

 "Okay, X-wing, we've got the cylinder established," the voice came. "Whenever you're 
ready."

 TheWild Karrde 's small docking bay was directly above him, its outer door gaping 
invitingly. Luke checked his instruments, confirmed there was indeed a corridor of air 
between the two ships, and took a deep breath. "Here we go, Artoo," he said, and popped 
the canopy.

 A puff of breeze brushed across his face as the air pressures equalized. Giving himself a 
careful push, he eased up and out, gripping the edge of the canopy to turn himself around. 
Artoo, he saw, had ejected from his socket and was drifting freely just above the X-wing, 
making distinctly unhappy noises about his situation. "I've got you, Artoo," Luke 
soothed, reaching out with the Force to pull the droid toward him. Getting his bearings 
one last time, he bent his knees and pushed off.

 He reached the airlock at the back of the bay a half second ahead of Artoo, grabbed hold 
of the straps fastened to the walls, and brought both of them to a smooth halt. Someone 
was obviously watching; they were still moving when the outer lock door slid shut. 
Gravity came back, slowly enough for him to adjust his stance to it, and a moment later 
the inner door slid open.

 There was a young man waiting for them, wearing a casual coverall of an unfamiliar 
cut. "Welcome aboard theWild Karrde ," he said, nodding gravely. "If you'll follow me, 
the captain would like to see you."

 Without waiting for a reply, he turned and headed down the curving corridor. "Come on, 
Artoo," Luke murmured, starting after him and reaching out with the Force for a quick 
survey of the ship. Aside from their guide, he could sense only four others aboard, all of 
them in the forward sections. Behind him, in the aft sections...

 He shook his head, trying to clear it. It didn't help: the aft sections of the ship still 
remained oddly dark to him. An aftereffect of the long hibernation, probably. It was for 
certain, though, that there were no crew members or droids back there, and that was all he 
needed to know for the moment.

 The guide led them to a door, which slid open as he stepped to one side. "Captain 
Karrde will see you now," he said, waving toward the open door.

 "Thank you," Luke nodded to him. With Artoo bumping against his heels, he stepped 
into the room.

 It was an office of sorts; small, with much of its wall space taken up with what looked 
like highly sophisticated communications and encrypt equipment. In the center was a 
large desk/ console combination... and seated behind it, watching Luke's approach, was a 
slender man, thin-faced, with short dark hair and pale blue eyes.

 "Good evening," he said in a cool, carefully modulated voice. "I'm Talon Karrde." His 
eyes flicked up and down Luke, as if measuring him. "And you, I presume, are 
Commander Luke Skywalker."

 Luke stared at him. How in the worlds...? "Private citizen Skywalker," he said, striving 
to keep his own voice calm. "I resigned my Alliance commission nearly four years ago."

 An almost-smile twitched the corners of Karrde's mouth. "I stand corrected. I must say, 
you've certainly found a good place to get away from it all."

 The question was unstated, but no less obvious for that. "I had some help choosing it," 
Luke told him. "A small run-in with an Imperial Star Destroyer about half a light-year 
away."

 "Ah," Karrde said, without any surprise that Luke could see or sense. "Yes, the Empire 
is still quite active in this part of the galaxy. Growing more so, too, particularly of late." 
He cocked his head slightly to the side, his eyes never leaving Luke's face. "Though I 
presume you've already noticed that. Incidentally, it looks like we'll be able to take your 
ship in tow, after all. I'm having the cables rigged now."

 "Thank you," Luke said, feeling the skin on the back of his neck start to tingle. Whether 
a pirate or a smuggler, Karrde should certainly have reacted more strongly to the news 
that there was a Star Destroyer in the area. Unless, of course, he already had an 
understanding with the Imperials... "Allow me to thank you for the rescue, as well," he 
continued. "Artoo and I are lucky you happened along."

 "And Artoo is¢? Oh, of course¢your astromech droid." The blue eyes flicked down 
briefly. "You must be a formidable warrior indeed, Skywalker¢escaping from an Imperial 
Star Destroyer is no mean trick. Though I imagine a man like yourself is accustomed to 
giving the Imperials trouble."

 "I don't see much front-line action anymore," Luke told him. "You haven't told me how 
you came to be out here, Captain. Or, for that matter, how you knew who I was."

 Another almost-smile. "With a lightsaber attached to your belt?" he asked wryly. "Come 
now. You were either Luke Skywalker, Jedi, or else someone with a taste for antiques 
and an insufferably high opinion of his swordsmanship." Again, the blue eyes flicked up 
and down Luke. "You're not really what I expected, somehow. Though I suppose that's 
not all that surprising¢the vast majority of Jedi lore has been so twisted by myth and 
ignorance that to get a clear picture is almost impossible."

 The warning bell in the back of Luke's mind began to ring louder. "You almost sound as 
if you were expecting to find me here," he said, easing his body into a combat stance and 
letting his senses reach out. All five of the crewers were still more or less where they'd 
been a few minutes earlier, farther up toward the forward part of the ship. None except 
Karrde himself was close enough to pose any kind of immediate threat.

 "As a matter of fact, we were," Karrde agreed calmly. "Though I can't actually take any 
of the credit for that. It was one of my associates, Mara Jade, who led us here." His head 
inclined slightly to his right. "She's on the bridge at the moment."

 He paused, obviously waiting. It could be a setup, Luke knew; but the suggestion that 
someone might actually have been able to sense his presence from light-years away was 
too intriguing to pass up. Keeping his overall awareness clear, Luke narrowed a portion 
of his mind to theWild Karrde 's bridge. At the helm was the young woman he'd spoken 
to earlier from the X-wing. Beside her, an older man was busy running a calculation 
through the nav computer. And sitting behind them¢

 The jolt of that mind shot through him like an electric current. "Yes, that's her," Karrde 
confirmed, almost offhandedly. "She hides it quite well, actually¢though not, I suppose, 
from a Jedi. It took me several months of careful observation to establish that it was you, 
and you personally, for whom she had these feelings."

 It took Luke another second to find his voice. Never before, not even from the Emperor, 
had he ever felt such a black and bitter hatred. "I've never met her before," he managed.

 "No?" Karrde shrugged. "A pity. I was rather hoping you'd be able to tell me why she 
feels this way. Ah, well." He got to his feet. "I suppose, then, there's nothing more for us 
to talk about for the moment... and let me say in advance that I'm very sorry it has to be 
this way."

 Reflexively, Luke's hand darted for his lightsaber. He'd barely begun the movement 
when the shock of a stun weapon coursed through him from behind.

 There were Jedi methods for fighting off unconsciousness. But they all took at least a 
split second of preparation¢a split second that Luke did not have. Dimly, he felt himself 
falling; heard Artoo's frantic trilling in the distance; and wondered with his last conscious 
thought how in the worlds Karrde had done this to him.

  

 Chapter 19
