 "In other words," Luke amplified, "a Jedi can't get so caught up in matters of galactic 
importance that it interferes with his concern for individual people." He looked at 
Threepio and smiled. "Or for individual droids."

 "Oh. I see, sir." Threepio cocked his head toward Luke's cup. "Forgive me, sir... but may 
I ask what that is that you're drinking?"

 "This?" Luke glanced down at his cup. "It's just something Lando taught me how to 
make a while back."

 "Lando?" Threepio echoed, and there was no missing the disapproval in his voice. 
Programmed politeness or not, the droid had never really much cared for Lando.

 Which wasn't very surprising, given the circumstances of their first meeting. "Yes, but 
in spite of such a shady origin, it's really quite good," Luke told him. "It's called hot 
chocolate."

 "Oh. I see." The droid straightened up. "Well, then, sir. If you are indeed all right, I 
expect I should be on my way."

 "Sure. By the way, what made you come up here in the first place?"

 "Princess Leia sent me, of course," Threepio answered, clearly surprised that Luke 
would have to ask. "She said you were in some kind of distress."

 Luke smiled and shook his head. Leave it to Leia to find a way to cheer him up when he 
needed it. "Show-off," he murmured.

 "I beg your pardon, sir?"

 Luke waved a hand. "Leia's showing off her new Jedi skills, that's all. Proving that even 
in the middle of the night she can pick up on my mood."

 Threepio's head tilted. "She reallydid seem concerned about you, sir."

 "I know," Luke said. "I'm just joking."

 "Oh." Threepio seemed to think about that. "Shall I tell her you're all right, then?"

 "Sure," Luke nodded. "And while you're down there, tell her that she should quit 
worrying about me and get herself back to sleep. Those bouts of morning sickness she 
still gets are bad enough when sheisn't worn-out tired."

 "I'll deliver the message, sir," Threepio said.

 "And," Luke added quietly, "tell her I love her."

 "Yes, sir. Good night, Master Luke."

 "Good night, Threepio."

 He watched the droid go, a fresh flow of depression threatening again to drag him down. 
Threepio wouldn't understand, of course¢no one on the Provisional Council had 
understood, either. But for Leia, just over three months pregnant, to be spending the bulk 
of her timehere ...

 He shivered, and not from the cool night air.This place is strong with the dark side. 
Yoda had said that of the cave on Dagobah¢the cave where Luke had gone on to fight a 
lightsaber duel with a Darth Vader who had turned out to be Luke himself. For weeks 
afterward the memory of the sheer power and presence of the dark side had haunted his 
thoughts; only much later had he finally realized that Yoda's primary reason for the 
exercise had been to show him how far he still had to go.

 Still, he'd often wondered how the cave had come to be the way it had. Wondered 
whether perhaps someone or something strong in the dark side had once lived there.

 As the Emperor had once lived here....

 He shivered again. The really maddening part of it was that hecouldn't sense any such 
concentration of evil in the Palace. The Council had made a point of asking him about 
that, in fact, when they'd first considered moving operations here to theImperialCity . 
He'd had to grit his teeth and tell them that, no, there seemed to be no residual effects of 
the Emperor's stay.

 But just because he couldn't sense it didn't necessarily mean it wasn't there.

 He shook his head.Stop it, he ordered himself firmly. Jumping at shadows wasn't going 
to gain him anything but paranoia. His recent nightmares and poor sleep were probably 
nothing more than the stresses of watching Leia and the others struggling to turn a 
military-oriented rebellion into a civilian-based government. Certainly Leia would never 
have agreed to come anywhere near this place if she'd had any doubts herself about it.

 Leia.

 With an effort, Luke forced his mind to relax and let his Jedi senses reach outward. 
Halfway across the palace's upper section he could feel Leia's drowsy presence. Her 
presence, and that of the twins she carried within her.

 For a moment he held the partial contact, keeping it light enough to hopefully not wake 
her any further, marveling again at the strange feel of the unborn children within her. The 
Skywalker heritage was indeed with them; the fact that he could sense them at all implied 
they must be tremendously strong in the Force.

 At least, he assumed that was what it meant. It had been something he'd hoped he would 
someday have a chance to ask Ben about.

 And now that chance was gone.

 Fighting back sudden tears, he broke the contact. His mug felt cold against his hand; 
swallowing the rest of the chocolate, he took one last look around. At the city, at the 
clouds... and, in his mind's eye, at the stars that lay beyond them. Stars, around which 
revolved planets, upon which lived people. Billions of people. Many of them still waiting 
for the freedom and light theNewRepublic had promised them.

 He closed his eyes against the bright lights and the equally bright hopes. There was, he 
thought wearily, no magic wand that could make everything better.

 Not even for a Jedi.

  

 Threepio shuffled his way out of the room, and with a tired sigh Leia Organa Solo 
settled back against the pillows.Half a victory is better than none, the old saying crossed 
her mind.

 The old saying she'd never believed for a minute. Half a victory, to her way of thinking, 
was also half a defeat.

 She sighed again, feeling the touch of Luke's mind. His encounter with Threepio had 
lightened his dark mood, as she'd hoped it would; but with the droid gone, the depression 
was threatening to overtake him again.

 Perhaps she should go to him herself. See if she could get him to talk through whatever 
it was that had been bothering him for the past few weeks.

 Her stomach twisted, just noticeably. "It's all right," she soothed, rubbing her hand 
gently across her belly. "It's all right. I'm just worried about your Uncle Luke, that's all."

 Slowly, the twisting eased. Picking up the half-filled glass on the nightstand, Leia drank 
it down, trying not to make a face. Warm milk was pretty far down on her list of favorite 
drinks, but it had proved to be one of the fastest ways to soothe these periodic twinges 
from her digestive tract. The doctors had told her that the worst of her stomach troubles 
should begin disappearing any day now. She hoped rather fervently that they were right.

 Faintly, from the next room, came the sound of footsteps. Quickly, Leia slapped the 
glass back on the nightstand with one hand as she hauled the blankets up to her chin with 
the other. The bedside light was still glowing, and she reached out with the Force to try 
and turn it off.

 The lamp didn't even flicker. Gritting her teeth, she tried again; again, it didn't work. 
Still not enough fine control over the Force, obviously, for something as small as a light 
switch. Untangling herself from the blankets, she tried to make a lunge for it.

 Across the room, the side door opened to reveal a tall woman in a dressing robe. "Your 
Highness?" she called softly, brushing her shimmering white hair back from her eyes. 
"Are you all right?"

 Leia sighed and gave up. "Come on in, Winter. How long have you been listening at the 
door?"

 "I haven't been listening," Winter said as she glided into the room, sounding almost 
offended that Leia would even suggest such a thing of her. "I saw the light coming from 
under your door and thought you might need something."

 "I'm fine," Leia assured her, wondering if this woman would ever cease to amaze her. 
Awakened in the middle of the night, dressed in an old robe with her hair in total 
disarray, Winter still looked more regal than Leia herself could manage on her best days. 
She'd lost track of the number of times when, as children together on Alderaan, some 
visitor to the Viceroy's court had automatically assumed Winter was, in fact, the Princess 
Leia.

 Winter had probably not lost track, of course. Anyone who could remember whole 
conversations verbatim should certainly be able to reconstruct the number of times she'd 
been mistaken for a royal princess.

 Leia had often wondered what the rest of the Provisional Council members would think 
if they knew that the silent assistant sitting beside her at official meetings or standing 
beside her at unofficial corridor conversations was effectively recording every word they 
said. Some of them, she suspected, wouldn't like it at all.

 "Can I get you some more milk, Your Highness?" Winter asked. "Or some crackers?"

 "No, thank you," Leia shook her head. "My stomach isn't really bothering me at the 
moment. It's... well, you know. It's Luke."

 Winter nodded. "Same thing that's been bothering him for the past nine weeks?"

 Leia frowned. "Has it been that long?"

 Winter shrugged. "You've been busy," she said with her usual knack for diplomacy.

 "Tell me about it," Leia said dryly. "I don't know, Winter¢I really don't. He told 
Threepio that he misses Ben Kenobi, but I can tell that's not all of it."

 "Perhaps it has something to do with your pregnancy," Winter suggested. "Nine weeks 
ago would put it just about right."

 "Yes, I know," Leia agreed. "But that's also about the time Mon Mothma and Admiral 
Ackbar were pushing to move the government seat here to Coruscant. Also about the 
time we started getting those reports from the borderlands about some mysterious tactical 
genius having taken command of the Imperial Fleet." She held her hands out, palms 
upward. "Take your pick."

 "I suppose you'll just have to wait until he's ready to talk to you." Winter considered. 
"Perhaps Captain Solo will be able to draw him out when he returns."

 Leia squeezed thumb and forefinger together, a wave of anger-filled loneliness 
sweeping over her. For Han to have gone out on yet another of these stupid contact 
missions, leaving her all alone¢

 The flash of anger disappeared, dissolving into guilt. Yes, Han was gone again; but even 
when he was here it seemed sometimes like they hardly saw each other. With more and 
more of her time being eaten up by the enormous task of setting up a new government, 
there were days when she barely had time to eat, let alone see her husband.

 But that's my job,she reminded herself firmly; and it was a job that, unfortunately, only 
she could do. Unlike virtually all the others in theAlliance hierarchy, she had had 
extensive training in both the theory and the more practical aspects of politics. She'd 
grown up in the Royal House of Alderaan, learning about systemwide rule from her 
foster father¢learning it so well that while still in her teens she was already representing 
him in the Imperial Senate. Without her expertise, this whole thing could easily collapse, 
particularly in these critical early stages of theNewRepublic 's development. A few more 
months¢just a few more months¢and she'd be able to ease off a little. She'd make it all up 
to Han then.

 The guilt faded. But the loneliness remained.

 "Maybe," she told Winter. "In the meantime, we'd better both get some sleep. We have a 
busy day tomorrow."

 Winter arched her eyebrows slightly. "There's another kind?" she asked with a touch of 
Leia's earlier dryness.

 "Now, now," Leia admonished, mock-seriously. "You're far too young to become a 
cynic. I mean it, now¢off to bed with you."

 "You're sure you don't need anything first?"

 "I'm sure. Go on, scat."

 "All right. Good night, Your Highness."

 She glided out, closing the door behind her. Sliding down flat onto the bed, Leia 
readjusted the blankets over her and shifted the pillows into a more or less comfortable 
position. "Good night to you two, too," she said softly to her babies, giving her belly 
another gentle rub. Han had suggested more than once that anyone who talked to her own 
stomach was slightly nuts. But then, she suspected that Han secretly believedeveryone 
was slightly nuts.

 She missed him terribly.

 With a sigh, she reached over to the nightstand and turned off the light. Eventually, she 
fell asleep.

  

 A quarter of the way across the galaxy, Han Solo sipped at his mug and surveyed the 
semiorganized chaos flowing all around him.Didn't we, he quoted to himself,just leave 
this party?

 Still, it was nice to know that, in a galaxy busily turning itself upside down, there were 
some things that never changed. The band playing off in the corner was different, and the 
upholstery in the booth was noticeably less comfortable; but apart from that, the Mos 
Eisley cantina looked exactly the same as it always had before. The same as it had looked 
the day he'd first met Luke Skywalker and Obi-wan Kenobi.

 It felt like a dozen lifetimes ago.

 Beside him, Chewbacca growled softly. "Don't worry, he'll be here," Han told him. "It's 
just Dravis. I don't think he's ever been on time for anything in his whole life."

 Slowly, he let his eyes drift over the crowd. No, he amended to himself, therewas one 
other thing different about the cantina: virtually none of the other smugglers who had 
once frequented the place were anywhere to be seen. Whoever had taken over what was 
left of Jabba the Hutt's organization must have moved operations off Tatooine. Turning to 
peer toward the cantina's back door, he made a mental note to ask Dravis about it.

 He was still gazing off to the side when a shadow fell across the table. "Hello, Solo," a 
snickering voice said.

 Han gave himself a three-count before turning casually to face the voice. "Well, hello, 
Dravis," he nodded. "Long time no see. Have a seat."

 "Sure," Dravis said with a grin. "Soon as you and Chewie both put your hands on the 
table."

 Han gave him an injured look. "Oh, comeon ," he said, reaching up to cradle his mug 
with both hands. "You think I'd invite you all the way here just to shoot at you? We're old 
buddies, remember?"

 "Sure we are," Dravis said, throwing Chewbacca an appraising glance as he sat down. 
"Or at least we used to be. But I hear you've gone respectable."

 Han shrugged eloquently. "Respectable's such a vague word.

 Dravis cocked an eyebrow. "Oh, well, then let's be specific," he said sardonically. "I 
hear you joined the Rebel Alliance, got made a general, married a former Alderaanian 
princess, and got yourself a set of twins on the way."

 Han waved a self-deprecating hand. "Actually, I resigned the general part a few months 
back."

 Dravis snorted. "Forgive me. So what's all this about? Some kind of warning?"

 Han frowned. "What do you mean?"

 "Don't play innocent, Solo," Dravis said, the banter gone from his tone. "New Republic 
replaces Empire¢all fine and sweet and dandy, but you know as well as I do that it's all 
the same to smugglers. So if this is an official invitation to cease and desist our business 
activities, let me laugh in your face and get out of here." He started to get up.

 "It's nothing like that," Han told him. "As a matter of fact, I was hoping to hire you."

 Dravis froze, halfway up. "What?" he asked warily.

 "You heard right," Han said. "We're looking to hire smugglers."

 Slowly, Dravis sat back down. "Is this something to do with your fight with the 
Empire?" he demanded. "Because if it is¢"

 "It isn't," Han assured him. "There's a whole spiel that goes along with this, but what it 
boils down to is that theNewRepublic is short of cargo ships at the moment, not to 
mention experienced cargo ship pilots. If you're looking to earn some quick and honest 
money, this would be a good time to do it."

 "Uh-huh." Dravis leaned back in his chair, draping an arm over the seat back as he eyed 
Han suspiciously. "So what's the catch?"

 Han shook his head. "No catch. We need ships and pilots to get interstellar trade going 
again. You've got 'em. That's all there is to it."

 Dravis seemed to think it over. "So why work for you and your pittance directly?" he 
demanded. "Why can't we just smuggle the stuff and make more per trip?"

 "You could do that," Han conceded. "But only if your customers had to pay the kind of 
tariffs that would make hiring smugglers worthwhile. In this case¢" he smiled "¢they 
won't."

 Dravis glared at him. "Oh, comeon , Solo. A brand-new government, hard-pressed like 
crazy for cash¢and you want me to believe they won't be piling tariffs on top of each 
other?"

 "Believe anything you want," Han said, letting his own tone go frosty. "Go ahead and 
try it, too. But when you're convinced, give me a call."

 Dravis chewed at the inside of his cheek, his eyes never leaving Han's. "You know, 
Solo," he said thoughtfully, "I wouldn't have come if I didn't trust you. Well, maybe I was 
curious, too, to see what scam you were pulling. And I might be willing to believe you on 
this, at least enough to check it out myself. But I'll tell you right up front that a lot of 
others in my group won't."

 "Why not?"

 "Because you've gone respectable, that's why. Oh, don't give me that hurt look¢the 
simple fact is that you've been out of the business too long to even remember what it's 
like. Profits are what drives a smuggler, Solo. Profits and excitement."

 "So what are you going to do instead, operate in the Imperial sectors?" Han countered, 
trying hard to remember all those lessons in diplomacy that Leia had given him.

 Dravis shrugged. "It pays," he said simply.

 "For now, maybe," Han reminded him. "But their territory's been shrinking for five 
years straight, and it's going to keep getting smaller. We're just about evenly gunned now, 
you know, and our people are more motivated and a lot better trained than theirs."

 "Maybe." Dravis cocked an eyebrow. "But maybe not. I hear rumors that there's 
someone new in charge out there. Someone who's been giving you a lot of trouble¢like in 
the Obroa-skai system, for instance? I hear you lost an Elomin task force out there just a 
little while ago. Awfully sloppy, losing a whole task force like that."

 Han gritted his teeth. "Just remember that anybody who givesus trouble is going to 
giveyou trouble, too." He leveled a finger at the other. "And if you think theNewRepublic 
is hungry for cash, think of how hungry the Empire must be right now."

 "It's certainly an adventure," Dravis agreed easily, getting to his feet. "Well, it really 
was nice seeing you again, Solo, but I gotta go. Say hi to your princess for me."

 Han sighed. "Just give your people our offer, okay?"

 "Oh, I will. Might even be some who'll take you up on it. You never can tell."

 Han nodded. It was, really, all he could have expected out of this meeting. "One other 
thing, Dravis. Who exactly is the big fish in the pond now that Jabba's gone?"

 Dravis eyed him thoughtfully. "Well... I guess it's not really a secret," he decided. "Mind 
you, there aren't any really official numbers. But if I were betting, I'd put my money on 
Talon Karrde."

 Han frowned. He'd heard of Karrde, of course, but never with any hint that his 
organization was even in the top ten, let alone the one on top. Either Dravis was wrong, 
or Karrde was the type who believed in keeping a low profile. "Where can I find him?"

 Dravis smiled slyly. "You'd like to know that, wouldn't you? Maybe someday I'll tell 
you."

 "Dravis¢"

 "Gotta go. See you around, Chewie."

 He started to turn; paused. "Oh, by the way. You might tell your pal over there that he's 
got to be the worst excuse for a backup man I've ever seen. Just thought you'd like to 
know." With another grin, he turned again and headed back into the crowd.

 Han grimaced as he watched him go. Still, at least Dravis had been willing to turn his 
back on them as he left. Some of the other smugglers he'd contacted hadn't even trusted 
him that far. Progress, sort of.

 Beside him, Chewbacca growled something derogatory. "Well, what do you expect with 
Admiral Ackbar sitting on the Council?" Han shrugged. "The Calamarians were death on 
smugglers even before the war, and everyone knows it. Don't worry, they'll come around. 
Some of them, anyway. Dravis can blather all he wants about profit and excitement; but 
you offer them secure maintenance facilities, no Jabba-style skimming, and no one 
shooting at them, and they'll get interested. Come on, let's get going."

 He slid out of the booth and headed for the bar and the exit just visible beyond it. 
Halfway across, he stopped at one of the other booths and looked down at its lone 
occupant. "I've got a message for you," he announced. "I'm supposed to tell you that 
you're the worst excuse for a backup man that Dravis has ever seen."

 WedgeAntilles grinned up at him as he slid out from behind the table. "I thought that 
was the whole idea," he said, running his fingers through his black hair.

 "Yes, but Dravis didn't." Though privately, Han would be the first to admit that Dravis 
had a point. As far as he was concerned, the only times Wedgedidn't stick out like a lump 
on plate glass was when he was sitting in the cockpit of an X-wing blasting TIE fighters 
into dust. "So where's Page, anyway?" he asked, glancing around.

 "Right here, sir," a quiet voice said at his shoulder.

 Han turned. Beside them had appeared a medium-height, medium-build, totally 
nondescript-looking man. The kind of man no one would really notice; the kind who 
could blend invisibly into almost any surroundings.

 Which had, again, been the whole idea. "You see anything suspicious?" Han asked him.

 Page shook his head. "No backup troops; no weapons other than his blaster. This guy 
must have genuinely trusted you."

 "Yeah. Progress." Han took one last look around. "Let's get going. We're going to be 
late enough back to Coruscant as it is. And I want to swing through the Obroa-skai 
system on the way."

 "That missing Elomin task force?" Wedge asked.

 "Yeah," Han said grimly. "I want to see if they've figured out what happened to it yet. 
And if we're lucky, maybe get some idea of who did it to them."

  

 Chapter 3

 The fold-out table in his private office was set, the food was ready to serve, and Talon 
Karrde was just pouring the wine when the tap came on his door. As always, his timing 
was perfect. "Mara?" he called.

 "Yes," the young woman's voice confirmed through the door. "You asked me to join 
you for dinner."

 "Yes. Please come in."

 The door slid open, and with her usual catlike grace Mara Jade walked into the room. 
"You didn't say what¢" her green eyes flicked to the elaborately set table "¢this was all 
about," she finished, her tone just noticeably different. The green eyes came back to him, 
cool and measuring.

 "No, it's not what you're thinking," Karrde assured her, motioning her to the chair 
opposite his. "This is a business meal¢no more, no less."

 From behind his desk came a sound halfway between a cackle and a purr. "That's right, 
Drang¢a business meal," Karrde said, turning toward the sound. "Come on, out with 
you."

 The vornskr peered out from around the edge of the desk, its front paws gripping the 
carpet, its muzzle close to the floor as if on the hunt. "I said out with you," Karrde 
repeated firmly, pointing toward the open door behind Mara. "Come on, your dish has 
been set up in the kitchen. Sturm's already there¢chances are he's eaten half your supper 
by now."

 Reluctantly, Drang slunk out from behind the desk, cackle/purring forlornly to himself 
as he padded toward the door. Don't give me that poor-little-me act," Karrde chided, 
picking a piece of braised bruallki from the serving dish. "Here¢this should cheer you 
up."

 He tossed the food in the general direction of the doorway. Drang's lethargy vanished in 
a single coiled-spring leap as he snagged the mouthful in midair. "There," Karrde called 
after him. "Now go and enjoy your supper."

 The vornskr trotted out. "All right," Karrde said, shifting his attention back to Mara. 
"Where were we?"

 "You were telling me this was a business meal," she said, her voice still a little cool as 
she slid into the seat across from his and surveyed the table. "It's certainly the nicest 
business meal I've had in quite a while."

 "Well, that's the point, really," Karrde told her, sitting down himself and reaching over 
to the serving tray. "I think it's occasionally good for us to remember that being a 
smuggler doesn't necessarily require one to be a barbarian, too."

 "Ah," she nodded, sipping at her wine. "And I'm sure most of your people are so very 
grateful for that reminder."

 Karrde smiled. So much, he thought, for the unusual setting and scenario throwing her 
off balance. He should have known that particular gambit wouldn't work on someone like 
Mara. "Itdoes often make for an interesting evening," he agreed. "Particularly¢" he eyed 
her "¢when discussing a promotion."

 A flicker of surprise, almost too fast to see, crossed her face. "A promotion?" she 
echoed carefully.

 "Yes," he said, scooping a serving of bruallki onto her plate and setting it in front of her. 
"Yours, to be precise."

 The wary look was back in her eyes. "I've only been with the group for six months, you 
know."

 "Five and a half, actually," he corrected her. "But time has never been as important to 
the universe as ability and results... and your ability and results have been quite 
impressive."

 She shrugged, her red-gold hair shimmering with the movement. "I've been lucky," she 
said.

 "Luck is certainly part of it," he agreed. "On the other hand, I've found that what most 
people call luck is often little more than raw talent combined with the ability to make the 
most of opportunities."

 He turned back to the bruallki, dished some onto his own plate. "Then there's your talent 
for starship piloting, your ability to both give and accept orders¢" he smiled slightly, 
gesturing to the table "¢and your ability to adapt to unusual and unexpected situations. 
All highly useful talents for a smuggler."

 He paused, but she remained silent. Evidently, somewhere in her past she'd also learned 
when not to ask questions. Another useful talent. "The bottom line, Mara, is that you're 
simply too valuable to waste as a backup or even as a line operator," he concluded. "What 
I'd like to do is to start grooming you toward eventually becoming my second in 
command."

 There was no chance of mistaking her surprise this time. The green eyes went 
momentarily wide, and then narrowed. "What exactly would my new duties consist of?" 
she asked.

 "Traveling with me, mostly," he said, taking a sip of wine. "Watching me set up new 
business, meeting with some of our long-term customers so that they can get to know 
you¢that sort of thing."

 She was still suspicious¢he could tell that from her eyes. Suspicious that the offer was a 
smoke screen to mask some more personal request or demand on his part. "You don't 
have to answer now," he told her. "Think about it, or talk to some of the others who've 
been with the organization longer." He looked her straight in the eye. "They'll tell you 
that I don't lie to my people."

 Her lip twisted. "So I've heard," she said, her voice going noncommittal again. "But bear 
in mind that if you give me that kind of authority, Iam going to use it. There's some 
revamping of the whole organizational structure¢"

 She broke off as the intercom on his desk warbled. "Yes?" Karrde called toward it.

 "It's Aves," a voice said. "Thought you'd like to know we've got company: an Imperial 
