 Artoo's report on the cylinder was, it turned out, fairly short and decidedly negative. The 
little droid did not recognize the design, could not decipher its function from what his 
general-purpose scanners could pick up, and didn't even know what language the script 
on the side was written in, let alone what it said. Luke was beginning to wonder what all 
the droid's earlier excitement had been about... until the last sentence scrolled across his 
computer scope.

 "Lando?" Luke frowned, reading the sentence again. "I don't remember ever seeing 
Lando with anything like this."

 More words scrolled across the scope. "Yes, I realize I was busy at the time," Luke 
agreed, unconsciously flexing the fingers of his artificial right hand. "Getting fitted with a 
new hand will do that. So did he give it to General Madine, or was he just showing it to 
him?"

 Another sentence appeared. "That's okay," Luke assured the droid. "I imagine you were 
busy, too."

 He looked into his rear display, at the crescent of Dagobah growing ever smaller behind 
him. He had intended to go straight back to Coruscant and wait for Leia and Han to return 
from Bpfassh. But from what he'd heard, their mission there could run a couple of weeks 
or even more. And Lando had invited him more than once to visit his new rare-ore 
mining operation on the superhot planet of Nkllon.

 "Change in plans, Artoo," he announced, keying in a new course. "We're going to swing 
over to the Athega system and see Lando. Maybe he can tell us what this thing is."

 And on the way, he'd have time to think about that disturbing dream or vision or 
whatever it was he'd had in the cave. And to decide whether it had been, in fact, nothing 
more than a dream.

  

 Chapter 12

 "No, I don't have a transit permit for Nkllon," Han said patiently into theFalcon 's 
transmitter, glaring across at the modified B-wing running beside them. "I also don't have 
any accounts here. I'm trying to reach Lando Calrissian."

 From the seat behind him came a sound that might have been a stifled laugh. "You say 
something?" he asked over his shoulder.

 "No," Leia said innocently. "Just remembering the past."

 "Right," Han growled. He remembered, too; and Bespin wasn't on his list of fond 
memories. "Look, just give Lando a call, will you?" he suggested to the B-wing. "Tell 
him that an old friend is here, and thought we might play a hand of sabacc for my choice 
of his stock. Lando will understand."

 "We want towhat ?" Leia asked, leaning forward around his chair to give him a startled 
look.

 Han muted the transmitter. "The Imperials might have spies here, too," he reminded her. 
"If they do, announcing our names to the whole Athega system wouldn't be very smart."

 "Point," Leia conceded reluctantly. "That's a pretty strange message, though."

 "Not to Lando," Han assured her. "He'll know it's me¢provided that middle-level button 
pusher out there loosens up and sends it in."

 Beside him, Chewbacca growled a warning: something big was approaching from 
aft-starboard. "Any make on it?" Han asked, craning his neck to try to get a look.

 The transmitter crackled back to life before the Wookiee could answer. "Unidentified 
ship, General Calrissian has authorized a special transit waiver for you," the B-wing said, 
his tone sounding a little disappointed. He'd probably been looking forward to personally 
kicking the troublemakers out of his system. "Your escort is moving to intercept; hold 
your current position until he arrives."

 "Acknowledged," Han said, not quite able to bring himself to thank the man.

 "Escort?" Leia asked cautiously. "Why an escort?"

 "That's what you get for going off and doing politics stuff when Lando drops by the 
Palace for a visit," Han admonished her, still craning his neck. There it was... "Nkllon's a 
superhot planet¢way too close to its sun for any normal ship to get to without getting part 
of its hull peeled off. Hence¢" he waved Leia's attention to the right "¢the escort."

 There was a sharp intake of air from behind him, and even Han, who'd seen Lando's 
holos of these things, had to admit it was an impressive sight. More than anything else the 
shieldship resembled a monstrous flying umbrella, a curved dish fully half as big across 
as an Imperial Star Destroyer. The underside of the dish was ridged with tubes and 
fins¢pumping and storage equipment for the coolant that helped keep the dish from 
burning up during the trip inward. Where the umbrella's handle would have been was a 
thick cylindrical pylon, reaching half as far back as the umbrella dish was wide, its far 
end bristling with huge radiator fins. In the center of the pylon, looking almost like an 
afterthought, was the tug ship that drove the thing.

 "Good skies," Leia murmured, sounding stunned. "And it actuallyflies ?"

 "Yeah, but not easily," Han told her, watching with a slight trickle of apprehension as 
the monstrosity moved ever closer to his ship. It didn't have to move allthat 
close¢theFalcon was considerably smaller than the huge container ships the shieldships 
normally escorted. "Lando told me they had all sorts of trouble getting the things 
designed properly in the first place, and almost as much trouble teaching people how to 
fly them."

 Leia nodded. "I believe it."

 The transmitter crackled again. "Unidentified ship, this is Shieldship Nine. Ready to 
lock; please transmit your slave circuit code."

 "Right," Han muttered under his breath, touching the transmit switch. "Shieldship Nine, 
we don't have a slave circuit. Just give me your course and we'll stay with you."

 There was a moment of silence. "Very well, unidentified ship," the voice said at 
last¢reluctantly, Han thought. "Set your course at two-eight-four; speed, point six 
sublight."

 Without waiting for an acknowledgment, the huge umbrella began to drift off. "Stay 
with him, Chewie," Han told the copilot. Not that that would be a problem; theFalcon 
was faster and infinitely more maneuverable than anything that size. "Shieldship Nine, 
what's our ETA for Nkllon?"

 "You in a hurry, unidentified ship?"

 "How could we be in a hurry, with this wonderful view?" Han asked sarcastically, 
looking at the underside of the dish that filled pretty much the entire sky. "Yeah, we're in 
kind of a hurry."

 "Sorry to hear that," the other said. "You see, if you had a slave circuit, we could do a 
quick hyperspace hop inward together and be at Nkllon in maybe an hour. Doing it this 
way¢well, it'll take us about ten."

 Han grimaced. "Great."

 "We could probably set up a temporary slave circuit," Leia suggested. "Threepio knows 
theFalcon 's computer well enough to do that."

 Chewbacca half turned toward her, growling a refusal that left no room for argument, 
even if Han had been inclined to argue. Which he wasn't. "Chewie's right," he told Leia 
firmly. "We don't slave this ship to anything. Ever. You copy that, shieldship?"

 "Okay by me, unidentified ship," the other said. They all seemed to be taking a perverse 
pleasure in using that phrase. "I get paid by the hour anyway."

 "Fine," Han said. "Let's get to it."

 "Sure"

 The transmission cut off, and Han poised his hands over the controls. The umbrella was 
still drifting, but nothing more. "Chewie, has he got his engines off standby yet?"

 The Wookiee rumbled a negative.

 "What's wrong?" Leia asked, leaning forward again.

 "I don't know," Han said, looking around. With the umbrella in the way, there wasn't a 
lot to see. "I don't like it, though." He tapped the transmitter. "Shieldship Nine, what's the 
holdup?"

 "Not to worry, unidentified ship," the voice came back soothingly. "We've got another 
craft coming in that also doesn't have a slave circuit, so we're going to take you both in 
together. No point in tying up two of us, right?"

 The hairs on the back of Han's neck began to tingle. Another ship that just happened to 
be coming into Nkllon the same time they were. "You have an ID on that other ship?" he 
asked.

 The other snorted. "Hey, friend, we don't even have an ID onyou ."

 "You're a big help," Han said, muting the transmitter again. "Chewie, you got an 
approach yet on this guy?"

 The Wookiee's reply was short and succinct. And disturbing. "Cute," Han growled. 
"Real cute."

 "I missed that," Leia murmured, looking over his shoulder.

 "He's coming in from the far side of the shieldship's central pylon," Han told her grimly, 
pointing to the inference brackets on the scanner scope. "Keeping it between him and us 
where we can't see him."

 "Is he doing it on purpose?"

 "Probably," Han nodded, hitting his restraint release. "Chewie, take over; I'm going to 
fire up the quads."

 He ran back along the cockpit corridor to the central core and headed up the ladder. 
"Captain Solo," a nervous mechanical voice called after him from the direction of the 
lounge. "Is something wrong?"

 "Probably, Threepio," Han shouted back. "Better strap in."

 He got up the ladder, passed through the right-angle gravity discontinuity at the gun 
well, and dropped himself into the seat. The control board went on with satisfying 
quickness, as he keyed for power with one hand and grabbed the headset with the other. 
"Anything yet, Chewie?" he called into his mike.

 The other growled a negative: the approaching craft was still completely hidden by the 
shieldship's pylon. But the inference scope was now giving a distance reading, and from 
that the Wookiee had been able to compute an upper size limit for the craft. It wasn't very 
big. "Well, that's something," Han told him, running through his mental list of starship 
types and trying to figure out what the Empire might be throwing at them that would be 
that small. Some variety of TIE fighter, maybe? "Stay sharp¢this might be a decoy."

 The inference scope pinged: the unknown ship was starting to come around the pylon. 
Han braced himself, fingers resting lightly on the fire controls...

 And with a suddenness that surprised him, the ship burst into sight, rounding the pylon 
in a twisting spiral. It steadied slightly¢

 "It's an X-wing," Leia identified it, sounding greatly relieved. "With Republic 
markings¢"

 "Hello, strangers," Luke's voice crackled into Han's ear. "Good to see you."

 "Uh... hi," Han said, stifling the automatic urge to greet Luke by name. Theoretically, 
they were on a secure frequency, but it was easy enough for anyone with sufficient 
motivation to get around such formalities. "What are you doing here?"

 "I came to see Lando," Luke told him. "Sorry if I startled you. When they told me I'd be 
going in with an unidentified ship I thought it might be a trap. I wasn't completely sure it 
was you until a minute ago."

 "Ah," Han said, watching as the other ship settled into a parallel course. It was Luke's 
X-wing, all right.

 Or at least, itlooked like Luke's X-wing. "So," he said casually, swiveling the laser 
cannons around to target the other. Situated the way it was, the X-wing would have to 
yaw 90 degrees around before it could fire at them. Unless, of course, it had been 
modified. "This just a social call, or what?"

 "Not really. I found an old gadget that... well, I thought Lando might be able to identify 
it." He hesitated. "I don't think we ought to discuss it out in the open like this. How about 
you?"

 "I don't think we should talk about that, either," Han told him, mind racing. It sounded 
like Luke, too; but after that near-disastrous decoy attempt on Bpfassh, he wasn't about to 
take anything for granted. Somehow, they needed to make a positive identification, and 
fast.

 He tapped a switch, cutting himself out of the radio circuit. "Leia, can you tell whether 
or not that's really Luke out there?"

 "I think so," she said slowly. "I'm almost positive it is."

 " 'Almost positive' won't cut it, sweetheart," he warned her.

 "I know," she said. "Hang on; I've got an idea."

 Han cut himself back into the radio circuit. "¢said that if I had a slave circuit they could 
get me in a lot faster," Luke was saying. "A hyperspace jump as close to Nkllon as the 
gravity well will permit, and then just a few minutes of cover before I'd be in the 
planetary umbra and could go the rest of the way in on my own."

 "Except that X-wings don't come equipped with slave circuits?" Han suggested.

 "Right," Luke said, a little dryly. "Some oversight in the design phase, no doubt."

 "No doubt," Han echoed, beginning to sweat a little. Whatever Leia was up to, he 
wished she'd get to it.

 "Actually, I'm glad you don't have one," Leia spoke up. "It feels safer traveling in 
convoy this way. Oh, before I forget, there's someone here who wants to say hello."

 "Artoo?" Threepio's prissy voice said tentatively. "Are you there?"

 Han's headphone erupted with a blather of electronic beeps and twitters. "Well, I 
don'tknow where else you might have been," Threepio said stiffly. "From past experience, 
there are a considerable variety of difficulties you could have gotten yourself into. 
Certainly without me along to smooth things out for you."

 The headphone made a noise that sounded suspiciously like an electronic snort. "Yes, 
well, you'vealways believed that," Threepio countered, even more stiffly. "I suppose 
you're entitled to your delusions."

 Artoo snorted again; and, smiling tightly to himself, Han keyed off his control board and 
dropped the lasers back into standby status. He'd known a lot of men, back in his 
smuggling days, who wouldn't have wanted a wife who could sometimes think faster than 
they could.

 Speaking for himself, Han had long ago decided he wouldn't have it any other way.

  

 The shieldship pilot hadn't been exaggerating. It was nearly ten hours later when he 
finally signaled that they were on their own, made one final not-quite-impolite comment, 
and pulled off to the side, out of the way.

 There wasn't much to see; but then, Han decided, the dark side of an undeveloped planet 
was seldom very scenic. A homing signal winked at him from one of the scopes, and he 
made a leisurely turn in the indicated direction.

 From behind him came the sound of a footstep. "What's happening?" Leia asked, 
yawning as she sat down in the copilot's seat.

 "We're in Nkllon's shadow," Han told her, nodding toward the starless mass directly 
ahead of them. "I've got a lock on Lando's mining operation¢looks like we'll be there in 
ten or fifteen minutes."

 "Okay." Leia looked off to the side, at the running lights of the X-wing pacing them. 
"Have you talked with Luke lately?"

 "Not for a couple of hours. He said he was going to try and get some sleep. I think 
Artoo's running the ship at the moment."

 "Yes, he is," Leia nodded, with that slightly absent voice she always used when 
practicing her new Jedi skills. "Luke's not sleeping very well, though. Something's 
bothering him."

 "Something's been bothering him for the past couple of months," Han reminded her. 
"He'll get over it."

 "No, this is something different," Leia shook her head. "Something more¢I don't know; 
moreurgent , somehow." She turned back to face him. "Winter thought that maybe he'd 
be willing to talk to you about it."

 "Well, he hasn't yet," Han said. "Look, don't worry. When he's ready to talk, he'll talk."

 "I suppose so." She peered out of the cockpit at the edge of the planetary mass they were 
speeding toward. "Incredible. Do you realize you can actually see part of the solar corona 
from here?"

 "Yeah, well, don't ask me to take you out for a closer look," Han told her. "Those 
shieldships aren't just for show, you know¢the sunlight out there is strong enough to fry 
every sensor we have in a few seconds and take theFalcon 's hull off a couple of minutes 
later."

 She shook her head wonderingly. "First Bespin, now Nkllon. Have you ever known 
Lando when hewasn't involved in some kind of crazy scheme?"

 "Not very often," Han had to admit. "Though at Bespin, at least, he had a known 
technology to work with¢Cloud City had been running for years before he got hold of it. 
This¢" he nodded out the viewport "¢they had to think up pretty much from scratch."

 Leia leaned forward. "I think I see the city¢that group of lights over there."

 Han looked where she was pointing. "Too small," he said. "More likely it's an outrider 
group of mole miners. Last I heard he had just over a hundred of the things digging stuff 
out of the surface."

 "Those are, what, those asteroid ships we helped him get from Stonehill Industries?"

 "No, he's using those in the outer system for tug work," Han corrected. "These are little 
two-man jobs that look like cones with the points chopped off. They've got a set of 
plasma-jet drills pointing down around the underside hatch¢you just land where you want 
to drill, fire the jets for a minute or two to chop up the ground, then go on down through 
the hatch and pick up the pieces."

 "Oh, right, I remember those now," Leia nodded. "They were originally asteroid miners, 
too, weren't they?"

 "The style was. Lando found this particular batch being used in a smelting complex 
somewhere. Instead of just removing the plasma jets, the owners had hauled the things up 
whole and wedged them into place on the line."

 "I wonder how Lando got hold of them."

 "We probably don't want to know."

 The transmitter crackled. "Unidentified ships, this is Nomad City Control," a crisp voice 
said. "You've been cleared for landing on Platforms Five and Six. Follow the beacon in, 
and watch out for the bumps."

 "Got it," Han said. TheFalcon was skimming the ground now, the altimeter reading 
them as just under fifty meters up. Ahead, a low ridge rose to meet them; giving the 
controls a tap, Han nudged them over it¢

 And there, directly ahead, was Nomad City.

 "Tell me again," he invited Leia, "about Lando and crazy schemes?"

 She shook her head wordlessly... and even Han, who'd more or less known what to 
expect, had to admit the view was stunning. Huge, humpbacked, blazing with thousands 
of lights in the darkside gloom, the mining complex looked like some sort of exotic 
monstrous living creature as it lumbered its way across the terrain, dwarfing the low 
ridges over which it walked. Searchlights crisscrossed the area in front of it; a handful of 
tiny ships buzzed like insect parasites around its back or scuttered across the ground in 
front of its feet.

 It took Han's brain a handful of seconds to resolve the monster into its component parts: 
the old Dreadnaught Cruiser on top, the forty captured Imperial AT-ATs underneath 
carrying it across the ground, the shuttles and pilot vehicles moving around and in front 
of it.

 Somehow, knowing what it was didn't make it the least bit less impressive.

 The transmitter crackled again. "Unidentified ship," a familiar voice said, "welcome to 
Nomad City. What's this about playing a hand of sabacc?"

 Han grinned lopsidedly. "Hello, Lando. We were just talking about you."

 "I'll bet," Lando said wryly. "Probably remarking on my business skills and creativity."

 "Something like that," Han told him. "Any special trick involved in landing on that 
thing?"

 "Not really," the other assured them. "We're only going a few kilometers an hour, after 
all. Is that Luke in the X-wing?"

 "Yes, I'm here," Luke put in before Han could answer. "This place is amazing, Lando."

 "Wait till you see it from the inside. It's about time you people came to visit, I might 
add. Are Leia and Chewie with you?"

 "We're all here," Leia said.

 "It's not exactly a social call," Han warned him. "We need a little help."

 "Well, sure," Lando said, with just the slightest bit of hesitation. "Anything I can do. 
Look, I'm in Project Central at the moment, supervising a difficult dig. I'll have someone 
meet you on the landing platform and bring you down here. Don't forget there's no air 
here¢make sure you wait for the docking tube to connect before you try popping the 
hatch."

 "Right," Han said. "Make sure your reception committee is someone you can trust."

 Another slight pause. "Oh?" Lando asked, casually. "Is there something¢?"

 He was cut off by a sudden electronic squeal from the transmitter. "What's that?" Leia 
snapped.

 "Someone's jamming us," Han growled, jabbing at the transmitter cutoff. The squealing 
vanished, leaving an unpleasant ringing in his ears as he keyed for intercom. "Chewie, 
we've got trouble," he called. "Get up here."

 He got an acknowledgment, turned back to the transmitter. "Get us a scan of the area," 
he told Leia. "See if there's anything coming in."

 "Right," Leia said, already working the keys. "What are you going to do?"

 "I'm going to find us a clear frequency." He pulled theFalcon out of its approach vector, 
made sure they had an open field around them, then turned the transmitter back on, 
keeping the volume low. There were freq-scanning and mixing tricks that he'd used in the 
past against this kind of jamming. The question now was whether he was going to have 
the time to implement them.

 Abruptly, much quicker than he'd expected, the squeal dissolved into a voice. "¢peating: 
any ships who can read me, please check in."

 "Lando, it's me," Han called. "What's going on?"

 "I'm not sure," Lando said, sounding distracted. "It could be just a solar flare scrambling 
our communications¢that happens sometimes. But the pattern here doesn't seem quite 
right for..."

 His voice trailed off. "What?" Han demanded.

 There was a faint hiss from the speaker, the sound of someone inhaling deeply. 
"Imperial Star Destroyer," Lando said quietly. "Coming in fast toward the planetary 
shadow."

 Han looked at Leia, saw her face turn to stone as she looked back at him. "They've 
found us," she whispered.

  

 Chapter 13

 "I see it, Artoo, I see it," Luke soothed. "Let me worry about the Star Destroyer; you just 
keep trying to find a way through that jamming."

 The little droid warbled a nervous-sounding acknowledgment and got back to work. 
Ahead, theMillennium Falcon had pulled out of its landing approach and was swinging 
back on what looked like an intercept course for the approaching ship. Hoping Han knew 
what he was doing, Luke keyed the X-wing for attack status and followed.Leia? he called 
silently.

 Her response contained no words; but the anger and frustration and quiet fear came 
through all too clearly.Hang on, I'm with you, he told her, putting as much reassurance 
and confidence into the thought as he could.

 A confidence which, he had to admit, he didn't particularly feel. The Star Destroyer 
itself didn't worry him¢if Lando's descriptions of the sunlight's intensity were right, the 
big ship itself was probably helpless by now, its sensors and maybe even a fair amount of 
its armament vaporized right off its hull.

 But the TIE fighters protected in its hangars weren't so handicapped... and as soon as the 
ship reached Nkllon's shadow, those fighters would be free to launch.

 Abruptly, the static cleared. "Luke?"

 "I'm here," Luke confirmed. "What's the plan?"

 "I was hopingyou'd have one," the other said dryly. "Looks like we're a little 
outnumbered here."

 "Does Lando have any fighters?"

 "He's scrambling what he's got, but he's going to keep them close in to protect the 
complex. I get the feeling the crews aren't all that experienced."

 "Looks like we're the attack front, then," Luke said. A stray memory flicked through his 
mind: walking into Jabba's palace on Tatooine five years ago, using the Force to befuddle 
the Gamorrean guards. "Let's try this," he told Han. "I'll run ahead of you, try to confuse 
or slow down their reflexes as much as I can. You follow right behind me and take them 
out."

 "Sounds as good as we're going to get," Han grunted. "Stay close to the ground; with 
luck, we'll be able to run some of them into those low ridges."

 "But don't gettoo low," Leia warned. "Remember that you're not going to be able to 
concentrate very much on your flying."

 "I can handle both," Luke assured her, giving the instruments one last scan. His first 
space combat as a full Jedi. Distantly, he wondered if this was how the Jedi of the Old 
Republic had handled such battles. Or even if they'd fought like this at all.

 "Here they come," Han announced. "Out of the hangar and on their way. Looks like... 
probably only one squadron. Overconfident."

 "Maybe." Luke frowned at his tactical scope. "What are those other ships with them?"

 "I don't know," Han said slowly. "They're pretty big, though. Could be troop carriers."

 "Let's hope not." If this was a full-scale invasion, and not just another hit-and-fade like 
at Bpfassh... "You'd better warn Lando."

 "Leia's on it. You ready?"

 Luke took a deep breath. The TIE fighters had formed into three four-ship groups now, 
sweeping directly toward them. "I'm ready," he said.

 "Okay. Let's do it."

 The first group was coming in fast. Half closing his eyes, flying entirely on reflex, Luke 
reached out with the Force.

 It was a strange sensation. Strange, and more than a little unpleasant. To touch another 
mind with the intent of communication was one thing; to touch that same mind with the 
intent of deliberately distorting its perception was something else entirely.

 He'd had a similar feeling at Jabba's, with those guards, but had put it down then to 
nervousness about his mission to rescue Han. Now, he realized that there was more to it 
than that. Perhaps this sort of action¢even done purely in self-defense¢was dangerously 
close to the edge of the dark areas where Jedi were forbidden to go.

 He wondered why neither Yoda nor Ben had ever told him about this. Wondered what 
else there was about being a Jedi that he was going to have to discover on his own.

 Luke?

 Dimly, he felt himself being jammed into his straps as he twitched the X-wing to one 
side. The voice whispering into his mind... "Ben?" he called aloud. It didn't sound like 
Ben Kenobi; but if it wasn't him, then who¢?

 You will come to me, Luke,the voice said again.You mustcome to me. I will await you.

 Who are you?Luke asked, focusing as much of his strength on the contact as he could 
without risking a crash. But the other mind was too elusive to track, skittering away like a 
bubble in a hurricane.Where are you?

 You will find me.Even as Luke strained, he could feel the contact slipping away.You will 
find me... and the Jedi shall rise again. Until then, farewell.

 Wait!But the call was fading into nothingness. Clenching his teeth, Luke strained... and 
gradually began to realize that another, more familiar voice was calling his name. "Leia?" 
he croaked back through a mouth that was inexplicably dry.
