starting to wonder where you went."

 "I had some things to check on," Luke said. "You finished already?"

 "My part is," Leia said, pulling a chair over to him and sitting down. "They're working 
on tailoring the program now. After that it'll be Threepio's turn."

 Luke shook his head. "Seems to me the whole thing ought to be simpler than all that."

 "Oh, the basic technique is," Leia agreed. "Apparently, the hard part is slipping it past 
the relevant part of Threepio's watchdog programming without changing his personality 
in the process." She looked again at the screen. "I was going to ask you if you'd be 
interested in coming to Kashyyyk with me," she said, her voice trying hard to be casual. 
"But it looks like you've got somewhere else to go."

 Luke winced. "I'm not running out on you, Leia," he insisted, wishing he could truly 
believe that. "Really I'm not. This is something that in the long run could mean more for 
you and the twins than anything I could do on Kashyyyk."

 "All right," she said, calmly accepting the statement. "Can you at least tell me where 
you're going?"

 "I don't know yet," he confessed. "There's someone out there I have to find, but I'm not 
sure yet even where to start looking." He hesitated, suddenly aware of how strange and 
maybe even crazy this was going to sound. But he was going to have to tell them 
eventually. "He's another Jedi."

 She stared at him. "You're not serious."

 "Why not?" Luke asked, frowning at her. Her reaction seemed vaguely wrong, 
somehow. "It's a big galaxy, you know."

 "A galaxy in which you were supposedly the last of the Jedi," she countered. "Isn't that 
what you said Yoda told you before you died?"

 "Yes," he nodded. "But I'm beginning to think he might have been mistaken."

 Her eyebrows lifted slightly. "Mistaken? A Jedi Master?"

 A memory flashed through Luke's mind: a ghostly Obi-wan, in the middle of the 
Dagobah swamp, trying to explain his earlier statements about Darth Vader. "Jedi 
sometimes say things that are misleading," he told her. "And even Jedi Masters aren't 
omniscient."

 He paused, gazing at his sister, wondering how much of this he should tell her. The 
Empire was far from defeated, and the mysterious Jedi's life might depend on his defense 
remaining a secret. Leia waited in silence, that concerned expression on her face...

 "You'll have to keep this to yourself," Luke said at last. "I meanreally to yourself. I don't 
even want you to tell Han or Lando, unless it becomes absolutely necessary. They don't 
have the resistance to interrogation that you do."

 Leia shuddered, but her eyes stayed clear. "I understand," she said evenly.

 "All right. Did it ever occur to you to wonder why Master Yoda was able to stay hidden 
from the Emperor and Vader all those years?"

 She shrugged. "I suppose I assumed they didn't know he existed."

 "Yes, but they should have," Luke pointed out. "They knewI existed by my effect on the 
Force. Why not Yoda?"

 "Some kind of mental shielding?"

 "Maybe. But I think it's more likely it was because of where he chose to live. Or 
maybe," he amended, "where events chose for him to live."

 A faint smile brushed Leia's lips. "Is this where I finally get to find out where this secret 
training center of yours was?"

 "I didn't want anyone else to know," Luke said, moved by some obscure impulse to try 
to justify that decision to her. "He was so perfectly hidden¢and even after his death I was 
afraid the Empire might be able to do something¢"

 He broke off. "Anyway, I can't see that it matters now. Yoda's home was on Dagobah. 
Practically next door to the dark-side cave where I found that beckon call."

 Her eyes widened in surprise, a surprise that faded into understanding. "Dagobah," she 
murmured, nodding slowly as if a private and long-standing problem had just been 
resolved. "I've always wondered how that renegade Dark Jedi was finally defeated. It 
must have been Yoda who..." She grimaced.

 "Who stopped him," Luke finished for her, a shiver running up his back. His own 
skirmishes with Darth Vader had been bad enough; a full-scale Force war between Jedi 
Masters would be terrifying. "And he probably didn't stop him with a lot of time to 
spare."

 "The beckon call was already on standby," Leia remembered. "He must have been 
getting ready to call his ship."

 Luke nodded. "All of which could explain why the cave was so heavy with the dark 
side. What itdoesn't explain is why Yoda decided to stay there."

 He paused, watching her closely; and a moment later, the understanding came. "The 
cave shielded him," she breathed. "Just like a pair of positive and negative electric 
charges close enough together¢to a distant observer they look almost like no charge at 
all."

 "I think that's it," Luke nodded again. "And if that's really how Master Yoda stayed 
hidden, there's no reason why another Jedi couldn't have pulled the same trick."

 "I'm sure another Jedi could have," Leia agreed, sounding reluctant. "But I don't think 
this C'baoth rumor is anywhere near solid enough to chase off after."

 Luke frowned. "What C'baoth rumor?"

 It was Leia's turn to frown. "The story that a Jedi Master named Jorus C'baoth has 
reemerged from wherever it was he's spent the past few decades." She stared at him. 
"You hadn't heard it?"

 He shook his head. "No."

 "But then, how¢?"

 "Someone called to me, Leia, during the battle this afternoon. In my mind. The way 
another Jedi would."

 For a long moment they just looked at each other. "I don't believe it," Leia said. "I just 
don't. Where could someone with C'baoth's power and history have hidden for so long? 
And why?"

 "Thewhy I don't know," Luke admitted. "As to thewhere ¢" He nodded toward the 
display. "That's what I've been looking for. Someplace where a Dark Jedi might once 
have died." He looked at Leia again. "Do the rumors say where C'baoth is supposed to 
be?"

 "It could be an Imperial trap," Leia warned, her voice abruptly harsh. "The person who 
called to you could just as easily be a Dark Jedi like Vader, with this C'baoth rumor 
dangled in front of us to lure you in. Don't forget that Yoda wasn't counting them¢both 
Vader and the Emperor were still alive when he said you were the last Jedi."

 "That's a possibility," he conceded. "It could also be just a garbled rumor. But if it's 
not..."

 He let the sentence hang, unfinished, in the air between them. There were deep 
uncertainties in Leia's face and mind, he could see, woven through by equally deep fears 
for his safety. But even as he watched her he could sense her gain control over both 
emotions. In those aspects of her training, she was making good progress. "He's on 
Jomark," she said at last, her voice quiet. "At least according to the rumor Wedge quoted 
for us."

 Luke turned to the display, called up the data on Jomark. There wasn't much there. "Not 
very populated," he said, glancing over the stats and the limited selection of maps. "Less 
than three million people, all told. Or at least back when this was compiled," he amended, 
searching for the publication date. "Doesn't look like anyone's taken official notice of the 
planet in fifteen years." He looked back at Leia. "Just the sort of place a Jedi might 
choose to hide from the Empire."

 "You'll be leaving right away?"

 He looked at her, swallowing the quick and obvious answer. "No, I'll wait until you and 
Chewie are ready to go," he said. "That way I can fly out with your shieldship. Give you 
that much protection, at least."

 "Thanks." Taking a deep breath, she stood up. "I hope you know what you're doing."

 "So do I," he said frankly. "But whether I do or not, it's something I have to try. That 
much I know for sure."

 Leia's lip twitched. "I suppose that's one of the things I'm going to have to get used to. 
Letting the Force move me around."

 "Don't worry about it," Luke advised her, getting to his feet and switching off the 
display. "It doesn't happen all at once¢you get to ease into it. Come on; let's go see how 
they're coming with Threepio."

  

 "At last!" Threepio cried, waving his arms in desperate relief as Luke and Leia stepped 
into the room. "Master Luke! Please,please tell General Calrissian that what he intends is 
a serious violation of my primary programming."

 "It'll be okay, Threepio," Luke soothed, stepping over to him. From the front the droid 
seemed to be just sitting there; it was only as Luke got closer that he could see the maze 
of wires snaking from both headpiece and dorsal junction box into the computer console 
behind him. "Lando and his people will be careful that nothing happens to you." He 
glanced at Lando, got a confirming nod in return.

 "But Master Luke¢"

 "Actually, Threepio," Lando put in, "you could think of this as really just fulfilling your 
primary programming in a more complete way. I mean, isn't a translation droid supposed 
to speak for the person he's translating for?"

 "I am primarily a protocol droid," Threepio corrected in as frosty a tone as he could 
probably manage. "And I say again that this isnot the sort of thing covered by any 
possible stretch of protocol."

 The borg looked up from the panel, nodded. "We're ready," Lando announced, touching 
a switch. "Give it a second... all right. Say something, Threepio."

 "Oh, dear," the droid said¢

 In a perfect imitation of Leia's voice.

 Artoo, standing across the room, trilled softly. "That's it," Lando said, looking decidedly 
pleased with himself. "The perfect decoy¢" he inclined his head to Leia "¢for the perfect 
lady."

 "This feels decidedly strange," Threepio continued¢Leia's voice, this time, in a 
thoughtful mood.

 "Sounds good," Han said, looking around at the others. "We ready to go, then?"

 "Give me an hour to log some last-minute instructions," Lando said, starting toward the 
door. "It'll take our shieldship that long to get here, anyway."

 "We'll meet you at the ship," Han called after him, stepping over to Leia and taking her 
arm. "Come on¢we'd better get back to theFalcon ."

 She put her hand on his, smiling reassuringly up at him. "It'll be all right, Han. Chewie 
and the other Wookiees will take good care of me."

 "They'd better," Han growled, glancing to where the borg was undoing the last of the 
cables connecting Threepio to the console. "Let's go, Threepio. I can hardly wait to hear 
what Chewie thinks of your new voice."

 "Oh, dear," the droid murmured again. "Oh,dear ."

 Leia shook her head in wonder as they headed for the door. "Do I really," she asked, 
"sound like that?"

  

 Chapter 15

 Han had fully expected that they would be attacked during the long shieldship journey 
out from Nkllon. For once, thankfully, his hunch was wrong. The three ships reached the 
shieldship depot without incident and made a short hyperspace jump together to the outer 
fringes of the Athega system. There, Chewbacca and Leia replaced Lando aboard his 
yacht-style ship, theLady Luck , and started off toward Kashyyyk. Luke waited until they 
were safely away before securing his X-wing back from defense posture and heading off 
on some mysterious errand of his own.

 Leaving Han alone on theFalcon with Lando and Threepio.

 "She'll be fine," Lando assured him, punching at the nav computer from the copilot's 
seat. "She's as safe now as she's ever likely to be. Don't worry."

 With an effort, Han turned from the viewport to face him. There was nothing to see out 
there, anyway¢theLady Luck was long gone. "You know, that's almost exactly the same 
thing you said back on Boordii," he reminded Lando sourly. "That botched dolfrimia 
run¢remember? You said, 'It'll be fine; don't worry about it.' "

 Lando chuckled. "Yes, but this time I mean it."

 "That's nice to know. So, what do you have planned for entertainment?"

 "Well, the first thing we ought to do is have Threepio send off a message to Coruscant," 
Lando said. "Give the impression that Leia's aboard to any Imperials who might be 
listening. After that, we could move a couple of systems over and send another message. 
And after that¢" he threw Han a sideways glance "¢I thought we might like to do a little 
sightseeing."

 "Sightseeing?" Han echoed suspiciously. Lando was practically glowing with 
innocence, a look he almost never used except when he was trying to sucker someone 
into something. "You mean as in flying all over the galaxy looking for replacement mole 
miners?"

 "Han!" Lando protested, looking hurt now. "Are you suggesting I'd stoop so low as to 
try and con you into helping me run my business?"

 "Forgive me," Han said, trying not to sound too sarcastic. "I forgot¢you're respectable 
now. So what sightsare we going to see?"

 "Well..." Casually, Lando leaned back and laced his fingers together behind his head. 
"You mentioned earlier that you hadn't been able to get in touch with Talon Karrde. I 
thought we might take another crack at it."

 Han frowned at him. "You serious?"

 "Why not? You want cargo ships, and you want a good slicer. Karrde can supply both."

 "I don't need a slicer anymore," Han said. "Leia's as safe now as she's ever likely to be. 
Remember?"

 "Sure¢until someone leaks the news that she's there," Lando countered. "I don't think the 
Wookiees would, but there are non-Wookiee traders flying in and out of Kashyyyk all the 
time. All it takes is one person spotting her, and you'll be right back where you were 
when you first got here." He cocked an eyebrow. "And Karrde might also have something 
on this mysterious Imperial commander who's been running you in circles lately."

 The commander who was almost certainly also the man behind the attacks on Leia... 
"You know how to make contact with Karrde?"

 "Not directly, but I know how to get to his people. And I thought that as long as we had 
Threepio and his umpteen million languages aboard anyway, we'd just go ahead and cut a 
new contact path."

 "That'll take time."

 "Not as much as you might think," Lando assured him. "Besides, a new path will cover 
our trail better¢yours and mine both."

 Han grimaced, but Lando was right. And with Leia safely hidden away, at least for now, 
they could afford to play it cautious. "All right," he said. "Assuming we don't wind up 
playing tag with a Star Destroyer or two."

 "Right," Lando agreed soberly. "The last thing we want is to draw the Imperials onto 
Karrde's tail. We've got enough enemies out there as it is." He tapped the ship's intercom 
switch. "Threepio? You there?"

 "Of course," Leia's voice returned.

 "Come on up here," Lando told the droid. "Time for your debut performance."

  

 The command room was filled with sculptures instead of pictures this time: over a 
hundred of them, lining the walls in holographic niches as well as scattered around the 
floor on ornate pedestals. The variety, as Pellaeon had come to expect, was astonishing, 
ranging from human-style chunks of simple stone and wood to others that were more like 
tethered living creatures than works of art. Each was illuminated by a hazy globe of light, 
giving sharp contrast to the darkness of the spaces between them. "Admiral?" Pellaeon 
called uncertainly, trying to see around the artwork and through the gloom.

 "Come in, Captain," Thrawn's coolly modulated voice beckoned. Over at the command 
chair, just above the hazy white of the Grand Admiral's uniform, two glowing red slits 
appeared. "You have something?"

 "Yes, sir," Pellaeon told him, walking to the console ring and handing a data card over 
it. "One of our probes in the outer Athega system has picked up Skywalker.And his 
companions."

 "Andhis companions," Thrawn echoed thoughtfully. He took the data card, inserted it, 
and for a minute watched the replay in silence. "Interesting," he murmured. "Interesting, 
indeed. What's that third ship¢the one maneuvering to link with theMillennium Falcon 's 
dorsal hatch?"

 "We've tentatively identified it as theLady Luck," Pellaeon said. "Administrator Lando 
Calrissian's personal ship. One of the other probes copied a transmission stating that 
Calrissian was leaving Nkllon on a purchasing trip."

 "Do we know that Calrissian did, in fact, board the ship at Nkllon?"

 "Ah... no, sir, not for certain. We can try to get that information, though."

 "Unnecessary," Thrawn said. "Our enemies are clearly past the stage of such childish 
tricks." Thrawn pointed to the display, where theMillennium Falcon and theLady Luck 
were now joined together. "Observe, Captain, their strategy. Captain Solo and his wife 
and probably the Wookiee Chewbacca board their ship on Nkllon, while Calrissian 
similarly boards his. They fly to the outer Athega system... and there they make a 
switch."

 Pellaeon frowned. "But we've¢"

 "Shh," Thrawn cut him off sharply, holding up a finger for silence, his eyes on the 
display. Pellaeon watched, too, as absolutely nothing happened. After a few minutes the 
two ships separated, maneuvering carefully away from each other.

 "Excellent," Thrawn said, freezing the frame. "Four minutes fifty-three seconds. They're 
in a hurry, of course, locked together so vulnerably. Which means..." His forehead 
furrowed in concentration, then cleared. "Three people," he said, a touch of satisfaction in 
his voice. "Three people transferred, in one direction or the other, between those two 
ships."

 "Yes, sir," Pellaeon nodded, wondering how in the Empire the Grand Admiral had 
figuredthat one out. "At any rate, we know that Leia Organa Solo remained aboard 
theMillennium Falcon ."

 "Do we?" Thrawn asked, lazily polite. "Do we indeed?"

 "I believe we do, sir, yes," Pellaeon said, quietly insistent. The Grand Admiral hadn't 
seen the entire playback, after all. "Right after theLady Luck and Skywalker's X-wing 
left, we intercepted a transmission from her that definitely originated from theMillennium 
Falcon ."

 Thrawn shook his head. "A recording," he said, his voice leaving no room for argument. 
"No; they're cleverer than that. A voiceprint-doctored droid, then¢probably Skywalker's 
3PO protocol droid. Leia Organa Solo, you see, was one of the two people who left with 
theLady Luck ."

 Pellaeon looked at the display. "I don't understand."

 "Consider the possibilities," Thrawn said, leaning back in his chair and steepling his 
fingertips in front of him. "Three people start out aboard theMillennium Falcon, one 
aboard theLady Luck . Three people then transfer. But neither Solo nor Calrissian is the 
type to turn his ship over to the dubious command of a computer or droid. So each ship 
must end up with at least one person aboard. You follow so far?"

 "Yes, sir," Pellaeon said. "That doesn't tell us who is where, though."

 "Patience, Captain," Thrawn interrupted him. "Patience. As you say, the question now is 
that of the final makeup of the crews. Fortunately, once we know there were three 
transfers, there are only two possible combinations. Either Solo and Organa Solo are 
together aboard theLady Luck , or else Organa Solo and the Wookiee are there."

 "Unless one of the transfers was a droid," Pellaeon pointed out.

 "Unlikely," Thrawn shook his head. "Historically, Solo has never liked droids, nor 
allowed them to travel aboard his ship except under highly unusual circumstances. 
Skywalker's droid and its astromech counterpart appear to be the sole exceptions; and 
thanks to your transmission data, we already know that that droid has remained on 
theMillennium Falcon ."

 "Yes, sir," Pellaeon said, not entirely convinced but knowing better than to argue the 
point. "Shall I put out an alert on theLady Luck , then?"

 "That won't be necessary," Thrawn said, and this time the satisfaction came through 
clearly. "I know exactly where Leia Organa Solo is going."

 Pellaeon stared at him. "You're not serious. Sir."

 "Perfectly serious, Captain," Thrawn said evenly. "Consider. Solo and Organa Solo have 
nothing to gain by simply transferring together to theLady Luck ¢theMillennium Falcon is 
faster and far better defended. This exercise only makes sense if Organa Solo and the 
Wookiee are together." Thrawn smiled up at Pellaeon. "And given that, there is only one 
logical place for them to go."

 Pellaeon looked at the display, feeling slightly sandbagged. But the Grand Admiral's 
logic tracked clean. "Kashyyyk?"

 "Kashyyyk," Thrawn confirmed. "They know they can't evade our Noghri forever, and 
so they've decided to surround her with Wookiees. For all the good it will do them."

 Pellaeon felt his lip twitch. He'd been aboard one of the ships that had been sent to 
Kashyyyk to capture Wookiees for the Empire's slave trade. "It may not be as easy as it 
sounds, Admiral," he cautioned. "Kashyyyk's ecology can best be described as a layered 
deathtrap. And the Wookiees themselves are extremely capable fighters."

 "So are the Noghri," Thrawn countered coldly. "Now. What of Skywalker?"

 "His vector away from Athega was consistent with a course toward Jomark," Pellaeon 
told him. "Of course, he could easily have altered it once he was out of range of our 
probes."

 "He's going there," Thrawn said, lip twisting in a tight smile. "Our Jedi Master has said 
so, hasn't he?" The Grand Admiral glanced at the chrono on his display board. "We'll 
leave for Jomark immediately. How much lead time will we have?"

 "A minimum of four days, assuming that Skywalker's X-wing hasn't been overly 
modified. More than that, depending on how many stopovers he has to make on the way."

 "He'll make no stopovers," Thrawn said. "Jedi use a hibernation state for trips of such 
length. For our purposes, though, four days will be quite adequate."

 He straightened in his chair and touched a switch. The command room's lights came 
back up, the holographic sculptures fading away. "We'll need two more ships," he told 
Pellaeon. "An Interdictor Cruiser to bring Skywalker out of hyperspace where we want 
him, and some kind of freighter. An expendable one, preferably."

 Pellaeon blinked. "Expendable, sir?"

 "Expendable, Captain. We're going to set up the attack as a pure accident¢an 
opportunity that will seem to have arisen while we were investigating a suspicious 
freighter for Rebellion munitions." He cocked an eyebrow. "That way, you see, we retain 
the option of turning him over to C'baoth if we choose to do so, without even Skywalker 
realizing he was actually ambushed."

 "Understood, sir," Pellaeon said. "With your permission, I'll get theChimaera 
underway." He turned to go¢

 And paused. Halfway across the room, one of the sculptures had not disappeared with 
the others. Sitting all alone in its globe of light, it slowly writhed on its pedestal like a 
wave in some bizarre alien ocean. "Yes," Thrawn said from behind him. "That one is 
indeed real."

 "It's... very interesting," Pellaeon managed. The sculpture was strangely hypnotic.

 "Isn't it?" Thrawn agreed, his voice sounding almost wistful. "It was my one failure, out 
on the Fringes. The one time when understanding a race's art gave me no insight at all 
into its psyche. At least not at the time. Now, I believe I'm finally beginning to 
understand them."

 "I'm sure that will prove useful in the future," Pellaeon offered diplomatically.

 "I doubt it," Thrawn said, in that same wistful voice. "I wound up destroying their 
world."

 Pellaeon swallowed. "Yes, sir," he said, starting again for the door. He winced only a 
little as he passed the sculpture.

  

 Chapter 16

 There was no dreaming in the Jedi hibernation trance. No dreaming, no consciousness, 
virtually no awareness of the outside world. It was very much like a coma, in fact, except 
for one interesting anomaly: despite the absence of true consciousness, Luke's time sense 
still somehow managed to function. He didn't understand it, exactly, but it was something 
he'd learned to recognize and use.

 It was that time sense, coupled with Artoo's frantic gurgling in the foggy distance, that 
was his first hint something was wrong.

 "All right, Artoo, I'm awake," he reassured the droid as he worked his way back toward 
consciousness. Blinking the gummy feeling out of his eyes, he gave the instruments a 
quick scan. The readings confirmed what his time sense had already told him: the X-wing 
had come out of hyperspace nearly twenty light-years short of Jomark. The proximity 
indicator registered two ships practically on top of him ahead, with a third off to one side 
in the distance. Still blinking, he raised his head for a look.

 And with a rush of adrenaline came fully awake. Directly ahead of him was what looked 
like a light freighter, a blazing overload in its engine section visible through crumpled 
and half-vaporized hull plates. Beyond it, looming like a dark cliff face, was an Imperial 
Star Destroyer.

 Anger, fear, aggression¢the dark side of the Force are they.With an effort, Luke forced 
down his fear. The freighter was between him and the Star Destroyer; concentrating on 
their larger prey, the Imperials might not even have noticed his arrival. "Let's get out of 
here, Artoo," he said, keying the controls back to manual and swinging the X-wing hard 
around. The etheric rudder whined in protest with the turn¢

 "Unidentified starfighter," a harsh voice boomed from the speaker. "This is the Imperial 
Star DestroyerChimaera . Transmit your identification code and state your business."

 So much for hoping he wouldn't be noticed. In the distance now, Luke could see what it 
was that had yanked the X-wing out of hyperspace: the third ship was an Interdictor 
Cruiser, the Empire's favorite tool for keeping opponents from jumping to lightspeed. 
Obviously, they'd been lying in wait for the freighter; it was just his bad luck that he'd run 
across the Interdictor's projected mass shadow and been kicked out of hyperspace along 
with it.

 The freighter. Closing his eyes briefly with concentration, Luke reached out with the 
Force, trying to discover whether it was a Republic ship, a neutral, or even a pirate that 
theChimaera had caught. But there was no hint of any life aboard. Either the crew had 
escaped, or else they'd already been taken prisoner.

 Either way, there was nothing Luke could do for them now. "Artoo, find me the nearest 
edge of that Interdictor's gravitywave cone," he ordered, throwing the X-wing into a 
stomach-churning downward drop that even the acceleration compensator couldn't quite 
handle. If he could keep the freighter directly between him and the Star Destroyer, he 
might be able to get out of range before they could bring a tractor beam to bear.

 "Unidentified starfighter." The harsh voice was starting to get angry. "I repeat, transmit 
your identification code or prepare to be detained."

 "Should have brought one of Han's false ID codes with me," Luke muttered to himself. 
"Artoo? Where's that edge estimate?"

 The droid beeped, and a diagram appeared on the computer scope. "That far, huh?" 
Luke murmured. "Well, nothing to do but go for it. Hang on."

 "Unidentified starfighter¢"

 The rest of the harangue was drowned out by the roar of the drive as Luke abruptly 
kicked the ship to full power. Almost lost in the noise was Artoo's questioning trilling. 
"No, I want the deflector shields down," Luke shouted back. "We need the extra speed."

 He didn't add that if the Star Destroyer was really serious about vaporizing them, the 
presence or absence of shields wouldn't matter much at this range, anyway. But Artoo 
probably already knew that.

 But if the Imperials didn't seem interested in vaporizing him out of hand, neither were 
they willing to just let him go. On the rear scope, he could see the Star Destroyer moving 
up and over the damaged freighter, trying to get clear of its interference.

 Luke threw a quick look at the proximity indicator. He was still within tractor beam 
range, and at their current relative speeds would remain so for the next couple of minutes. 
