would make great target practice for the Imperials."

 "I'm sure he's thought of that," Winter assured him. "And the orbit dock and shipyards at 
Sluis Van are very well defended."

 "I'm not sure anything's really well defended these days," Han returned sourly. "Not 
with the Imperials running loose like they are. Anyway. Got to go; talk to you later."

 "Enjoy your trip. Your Highness? Good-bye."

 Lando snapped his fingers at Threepio. "Good-bye, Winter," the droid said.

 Han made a slashing motion across his throat, and Lando shut off the transmitter. "If 
those Star Cruisers had been built with proper slave circuits, they wouldn't have to load 
them with droids to make container ships out of them," he pointed out innocently.

 "Yeah," Han nodded, his mind just barely registering Lando's words. "Come on¢we've 
got to cut this short and get back." He climbed out of the cockpit seat and checked his 
blaster. "Something's about to burn through on Coruscant."

 "You mean all that stuff about Ackbar's family?" Lando asked, standing up.

 "Right," Han said, heading back toward theFalcon's hatchway. "If I'm reading Winter 
right, it sounds like Fey'lya has started a major push toward Ackbar's territory. Come on, 
Threepio¢you need to lock up behind us."

 "Captain Solo, I must once again protest this whole arrangement," the droid said 
plaintively, scuttling up behind Han. "I really feel that to impersonate Princess Leia¢"

 "All right, all right," Han cut him off. "As soon as we get back, I'll have Lando undo the 
programming."

 "It's over already?" Lando asked, pushing past Threepio to join Han at the lock. "I 
thought you told Winter¢"

 "That was for the benefit of anyone tapping in," Han said. "As soon as we've worked 
through this contact, we're going to head back. Maybe even stop by Kashyyyk on the way 
and pick up Leia."

 Lando whistled softly. "That bad, huh?"

 "It's hard to say, exactly," Han had to admit as he slapped the release. The ramp dropped 
smoothly down to the dusty permcrete beneath them. "That 'staying up late to read' is the 
part I don't understand. I suppose it could mean some of the intelligence work that 
Ackbar's been doing along with the Supreme Commander position. Or worse¢maybe 
Fey'lya's going for the whole sabacc pot."

 "You and Winter should have worked out a better verbal code," Lando said as they 
started down the ramp.

 "We should have worked out a verbal code, period," Han growled back. "I've been 
meaning for three years to sit down with her and Leia and set one up. Never got around to 
it."

 "Well, if it helps, the analysis makes sense," Lando offered, glancing around the 
docking pit. "It fits the rumors I've heard, anyway. I take it the neighbors you referred to 
are the Empire?"

 "Right. Winter should have heard something about it if Ackbar had had any luck 
plugging the security leaks."

 "Won't that make it dangerous to go back, then?" Lando asked as they started toward the 
exit.

 "Yeah," Han agreed, feeling his lip twist. "But we're going to have to risk it. Without 
Leia there to play peacemaker, Fey'lya might just be able to beg or bully the rest of the 
Council into giving him whatever it is he wants."

 "Mmm." Lando paused at the bottom of the ramp leading to the docking pit exit and 
looked up. "Let's hope this is the last contact in the line."

 "Let's hope first that the guy shows," Han countered, heading up the ramp.

 The Abregado-rae Spaceport had had a terrible reputation among the pilots Han had 
flown with in his smuggling days, ranking right down at the bottom with places like the 
Mos Eisley port on Tatooine. It was therefore something of a shock, though a pleasant 
one, to find a bright, clean cityscape waiting for them when they stepped through the 
landing pit door. "Well, well," Lando murmured from beside him. "Has civilization 
finally come to Abregado?"

 "Stranger things have happened," Han agreed, looking around. Clean and almost 
painfully neat, yet with that same unmistakable air that every general freight port seemed 
to have. That air of the not-entirely tame...

 "Uh-oh," Lando said quietly, his eyes on something past Han's shoulder. "Looks like 
someone's just bought the heavy end of the hammer."

 Han turned. Fifty meters down the port perimeter street, a small group of uniformed 
men with light-armor vests and blaster rifles had gathered at one of the other landing pit 
entrances. Even as Han watched, half of them slipped inside, leaving the rest on guard in 
the street. "That's the hammer, all right," Han agreed, craning his neck to try and read the 
number above the door. Sixty-three. "Let's hope that's not our contact in there. Where are 
we meeting him, anyway?"

 "Right over there," Lando said, pointing to a small windowless building built in the gap 
between two much older ones. A carved wooden plank with the single word "LoBue" 
hung over the door. "We're supposed to take one of the tables near the bar and the casino 
area and wait. He'll contact us there."

 The LoBue was surprisingly large, given its modest street front, extending both back 
from the street and also into the older building to its left. Just inside the entrance were a 
group of conversation-oriented tables overlooking a small but elaborate dance floor, the 
latter deserted but with some annoying variety of taped music playing in the background. 
On the far side of the dance floor were a group of private booths, too dark for Han to see 
into. Off to the left, up a few steps and separated from the dance floor by a transparent 
etched plastic wall, was the casino area. "I think I see the bar up there," Lando murmured. 
"Just back of the sabacc tables to the left. That's probably where he wants us."

 "You ever been here before?" Han asked over his shoulder as they skirted the 
conversation tables and headed up the steps.

 "Not this place, no. Last time I was at Abregado-rae was years ago. It was worse than 
Mos Eisley, and I didn't stay long." Lando shook his head. "Whatever problems you 
might have with the new government here, you have to admit they've done a good job of 
cleaning the planet up."

 "Yeah, well, whatever problems you have with the new government, let's keep them 
quiet, okay?" Han warned. "Just for once, I'd like to keep a low profile."

 Lando chuckled. "Whatever you say."

 The lighting in the bar area was lower than that in the casino proper, but not so low that 
seeing was difficult. Choosing a table near the gaming tables, they sat down. A holo of an 
attractive girl rose from the center of the table as they did so. "Good day, gentles," she 
said in pleasantly accented Basic. "How may I serve?"

 "Do you have any Necr'ygor Omic wine?" Lando asked.

 "We do, indeed: '47, '49, '50, and '52."

 "We'll have a half carafe of the '49," Lando told her.

 "Thank you, gentles," she said, and the holo vanished.

 "Was that part of the countersign?" Han asked, letting his gaze drift around the casino. It 
was only the middle of the afternoon, local time, but even so over half the tables were 
occupied. The bar area, in contrast, was nearly empty, with only a handful of humans and 
aliens scattered around. Drinking, apparently, ranked much lower than gambling on the 
list of popular Gado vices.

 "Actually, he didn't say anything about what we should order," Lando said. "But since I 
happen to like a good Necr'ygor Omic wine¢"

 "And since Coruscant will be picking up the tab for it?"

 "Something like that."

 The wine arrived on a tray delivered through a slidehatch in the center of the table. 
"Will there be anything else, gentles?" the holo girl asked.

 Lando shook his head, picking up the carafe and the two glasses that had come with it. 
"Not right now, thank you."

 "Thank you." She and the tray disappeared.

 "So," Lando said, pouring the wine. "I guess we wait."

 "Well, while you're busy waiting, do a casual one-eighty," Han said. "Third sabacc table 
back¢five men and a woman. Tell me if the guy second from the right is who I think it 
is."

 Lifting his wine glass, Lando held it up to the light, as if studying its color. In the 
process he turned halfway around¢ "Not Fynn Torve?"

 "Sure looks like him to me," Han agreed. "I figured you'd probably seen him more 
recently than I have."

 "Not since the last Kessel run you and I did together." Lando cocked an eyebrow at Han. 
"Just before thatother big sabacc table," he added dryly.

 Han gave him an injured look. "You're not still sore about theFalcon , are you?"

 "Now..." Lando considered. "No, probably not. No sorer than I was at losing the game 
to an amateur like you in the first place."

 "Amateur?"

 "¢but I'll admit there were times right afterward when I lay awake at night plotting 
elaborate revenge. Good thing I never got around to doing any of it."

 Han looked back at the sabacc table. "If it makes you feel any better... if you hadn't lost 
theFalcon to me, we probably wouldn't be sitting here right now. The Empire's first 
Death Star would have taken out Yavin and then picked the Alliance apart planet by 
planet. And that would have been the end of it."

 Lando shrugged. "Maybe; maybe not. With people like Ackbar and Leia running 
things¢"

 "Leia would have been dead," Han cut him off. "She was already slated for execution 
when Luke, Chewie, and I pulled her out of the Death Star." A shiver ran through him at 
the memory. He'd beenthat close to losing her forever. And would never even have 
known what he'd missed.

 And now that he knew... he might still lose her.

 "She'll be okay, Han," Lando said quietly. "Don't worry." He shook his head. "I just 
wish we knew what the Imperials wanted with her."

 "I know what they want," Han growled. "They want the twins."

 Lando stared at him, a startled look on his face. "Are you sure?"

 "As sure as I am of any of this," Han said. "Why else didn't they just use stun weapons 
on us in that Bpfassh ambush? Because the things have a better than fifty-fifty chance of 
sparking a miscarriage, that's why."

 "Sounds reasonable," Lando agreed grimly. "Does Leia know?"

 "I don't know. Probably."

 He looked at the sabacc tables, the cheerful decadence of the whole scene suddenly 
grating against his mood. If Torve really was Karrde's contact man, he wished the other 
would quit this nonsense and get on with it. It wasn't like there were a lot of possibilities 
hanging around here to choose from.

 His eyes drifted away from the casino, into the bar area... and stopped. There, sitting at a 
shadowy table at the far end, were three men.

 There was an unmistakable air about a general freight port, a combination of sounds and 
smells and vibrations that every pilot who'd been in the business long enough knew 
instantly. There was an equally unmistakable air about planetary security officers. 
"Uh-oh," he muttered.

 "What?" Lando asked, throwing a casual glance of his own around the room. The glance 
reached the far table¢ "Uh-oh, indeed," he agreed soberly. "Offhand, I'd say that explains 
why Torve's hiding at a sabacc table."

 "And doing his best to ignore us," Han said, watching the security agents out of the 
corner of his eye and trying to gauge the focus of their attention. If they'd tumbled to this 
whole contact meeting there probably wasn't much he could do about it, short of hauling 
out his New Republic ID and trying to pull rank on them. Which might or might not 
work; and he could just hear the polite screaming fit Fey'lya would have over it either 
way.

 But if they were just after Torve, maybe as part of that landing pit raid he and Lando 
had seen on the way in...

 It was worth the gamble. Reaching over, he tapped the center of the table. "Attendant?"

 The holo reappeared. "Yes, gentles?"

 "Give me twenty sabacc chips, will you?"

 "Certainly," she said, and vanished.

 "Wait a minute," Lando said cautiously as Han drained his glass. "You're not going to 
go over there, are you?"

 "You got a better idea?" Han countered, reaching down to resettle his blaster in its 
holster. "If he's our contact, I sure don't want to lose him now."

 Lando gave a sigh of resignation. "So much for keeping a low profile. What do you 
want me to do?"

 "Be ready to run some interference." The center of the table opened up and a neat stack 
of sabacc chips arrived. "So far it looks like they're just watching him¢maybe we can get 
him out of here before their pals arrive in force."

 "If not?"

 Han collected the chips and got to his feet. "Then I'll try to create a diversion, and meet 
you back at theFalcon ."

 "Right. Good luck."

 There were two seats not quite halfway across the sabacc table from Torve. Han chose 
one and sat down, dropping his stack of chips onto the table with a metallicthud . "Deal 
me in," he said.

 The others looked up at him, their expressions varying from surprised to annoyed. Torve 
himself glanced up, came back for another look. Han cocked an eyebrow at him. "You 
the dealer, sonny? Come on, deal me in."

 "Ah¢no, it's not my deal," Torve said, his eyes flicking to the pudgy man on his right.

 "And we've already started," the pudgy man said, his voice surly. "Wait until the next 
game."

 "What, you haven't all even bet yet," Han countered, gesturing toward the handful of 
chips in the hand pot. The sabacc pot, in contrast, was pretty rich¢the session must have 
been going for a couple of hours at least. Probably one reason the dealer didn't want fresh 
blood in the game who might conceivably win it all. "Come on, give me my cards," he 
told the other, tossing a chip into the hand pot.

 Slowly, glaring the whole time, the dealer peeled the top two cards off the deck and slid 
them over. "That's more like it," Han said approvingly. "Brings back memories, this does. 
I used to drop the heavy end of the hammer on the guys back home all the time."

 Torve looked at him sharply, his expression freezing to stone. "Did you, now," he said, 
his voice deliberately casual. "Well, you're playing with the big boys here, not the little 
people. You may not find the sort of rewards you're used to."

 "I'm not exactly an amateur myself," Han said airily. The locals at the spaceport had 
been raiding landing pit sixty-three... "I've won¢oh, probably sixty-three games in the last 
month alone."

 Another flicker of recognition crossed Torve's face. So itwas his landing pit. "Lot of 
rewards in numbers like that," he murmured, letting one hand drop beneath the level of 
the table. Han tensed, but the hand came back up empty. Torve's eyes flicked around the 
room once, lingering for a second on the table where Lando was sitting before turning 
back to Han. "You willing to put your money where your mouth is?"

 Han met his gaze evenly. "I'll meet anything you've got."

 Torve nodded slowly. "I may just take you up on it."

 "This is all very interesting, I'm sure," one of the other players spoke up. "Some of us 
would like to play cards, though."

 Torve raised his eyebrows at Han. "The bet's at four," he invited.

 Han glanced at his cards: the Mistress of Staves and the four of Coins. "Sure," he said, 
lifting six chips from his stack and dropping them into the hand pot. "I'll see the four, and 
raise you two." There was a rustle of air behind him¢

 "Cheater!" a deep voice bellowed in his ear.

 Han jumped and spun around, reaching reflexively toward his blaster, but even as he did 
so a large hand shot over his shoulder to snatch the two cards from his other hand. "You 
are acheater , sir," the voice bellowed again.

 "I don't know what you're talking about," Han said, craning his neck up to get a look at 
his assailant.

 He was almost sorry he had. Towering over him like a bushy-bearded thundercloud 
twice his own size, the man was glaring down at him with an expression that could only 
be described as enflamed with religious fervor. "You know full well what I'm talking 
about," the man said, biting out each word. "This card¢" he waved one of Han's cards "¢is 
askifter ."

 Han blinked. "It is not," he protested. A crowd was rapidly gathering around the table: 
casino security and other employees, curious onlookers, and probably a few who were 
hoping to see a little blood. "It's the same card I was dealt."

 "Oh, is it?" The man cupped the card in one massive hand, held it in front of Han's face, 
and touched the corner with a fingertip.

 The Mistress of Staves abruptly became the six of Sabres. The man tapped the corner 
again and it became the Moderation face card. And then the eight of Flasks... and then the 
Idiot face card... and then the Commander of Coins...

 "That's the card I was dealt," Han repeated, feeling sweat starting to collect under his 
collar. So much, indeed, for keeping a low profile. "If it's a skifter, it's not my fault."

 A short man with a hard-bitten face elbowed past the bearded man. "Keep your hands 
on the table," he ordered Han in a voice that matched his face. "Move aside, 
Reverend¢we'll handle this."

 Reverend?Han looked up at the glowering thundercloud again, and this time he saw the 
black, crystal-embedded band nestled against the tufts of hair at the other's throat. 
"Reverend, huh?" he said with a sinking feeling. There were extreme religious groups all 
over the galaxy, he'd found, whose main passion in life seemed to be the elimination of 
all forms of gambling. And all forms of gamblers.

 "Hands on the table, I said," the security man snapped, reaching over to pluck the 
suspect card from the Reverend's hand. He glanced at it, tried it himself, and nodded. 
"Cute skifter, con," he said, giving Han what was probably his best scowl.

 "He must have palmed the card he was dealt," the Reverend put in. He hadn't budged 
from his place at Han's side. "Where is it, cheater?"

 "The card I was dealt is right there in your friend's hand," Han snapped back. "I don't 
need a skifter to win at sabacc. If I had one, it's because it was dealt to me."

 "Oh, really?" Without warning, the Reverend abruptly turned to face the pudgy sabacc 
dealer, still sitting at the table but almost lost in the hovering crowd. "Your cards, sir, if 
you don't mind," he said, holding out his hand.

 The other's jaw dropped. "What are you talking about? Why would I give someone else 
a skifter? Anyway, it's a house deck¢see?"

 "Well, there's one way to be sure, isn't there?" the Reverend said, reaching over to scoop 
up the deck. "And then you¢andyou¢" he leveled fingers at the dealer and Han "¢can be 
scanned to see who's hiding an extra card. I dare say that would settle the issue, wouldn't 
you, Kampl?" he added, looking down at the scowling security man.

 "Don't tell us our job, Reverend," Kampl growled. "Cyru¢get that scanner over here, 
will you?"

 The scanner was a small palm-fitting job, obviously designed for surreptitious 
operation. "That one first," Kampl ordered, pointing at Han.

 "Right." Expertly, the other circled Han with the instrument. "Nothing."

 The first touch of uncertainty cracked through Kampl's scowl. "Try it again."

 The other did so. "Still nothing. He's got a blaster, comlink, and ID, and that's it."

 For a long moment Kampl continued staring at Han. Then, reluctantly, he turned to the 
sabacc dealer. "I protest!" the dealer sputtered, pushing himself to his feet. "I'm a Class 
Double-A citizen¢you have no right to put me through this sort oftotally unfounded 
accusation."

 "You do it here or down at the station," Kampl snarled. "Your choice."

 The dealer threw a look at Han that was pure venom, but he stood in stiff silence while 
the security tech scanned him down. "He's clean, too," the other reported, a slight frown 
on his face.

 "Scan around the floor," Kampl ordered. "See if someone ditched it."

 "And count the cards still in the deck," the Reverend spoke up.

 Kampl spun to face him. "For the last time¢"

 "Because if all we have here are the requisite seventy-six cards," the Reverend cut him 
off, his voice heavy with suspicion, "perhaps what we're really looking at is a fixed 
deck."

 Kampl jerked as if he'd been stung. "We don't fix decks in here," he insisted.

 "No?" the Reverend glared. "Not even when special people are sitting in on the game? 
People who might know to look for a special card when it comes up?"

 "That's ridiculous," Kampl snarled, taking a step toward him. "The LoBue is a 
respectable and perfectly legal establishment. None of these players has any connection 
with¢"

 "Hey!" the pudgy dealer said suddenly. "The guy who was sitting next to me¢where'd he 
go?"

 The Reverend snorted. "So. None of them has any connection with you, do they?"

 Someone swore violently and started pushing his way through the crowd¢one of the 
three planetary security types who'd been watching the table. Kampl watched him go, 
took a deep breath, and turned to glare at Han. "You want to tell me your partner's 
name?"

 "He wasn't my partner," Han said. "And I was not cheating. You want to make a formal 
accusation, take me down to the station and do it there. If you don't¢" he got to his feet, 
scooping up his remaining chips in the process "¢then I'm leaving."

 For a long moment he thought Kampl was going to call his bluff. But the other had no 
real evidence, and he knew it; and apparently he had better things to do than indulge in 
what would be really nothing more than petty harassment. "Sure¢get out of here," the 
other snarled. "Don't ever come back."

 "Don't worry," Han told him.

 The crowd was starting to dissolve, and he had no trouble making his way back to his 
table. Lando, not surprisingly, was long gone. Whatwas surprising was that he'd settled 
the bill before he had left.

  

 "That was quick," Lando greeted him from the top of theFalcon 's entry ramp. "I wasn't 
expecting them to turn you loose for at least an hour."

 "They didn't have much of a case," Han said, climbing up the ramp and slapping the 
hatch button. "I hope Torve didn't give you the slip."

 Lando shook his head. "He's waiting in the lounge." He raised his eyebrows. "And 
considers himself in our debt."

 "That could be useful," Han agreed, heading down the curved corridor.

 Torve was seated at the lounge holo board, three small data pads spread out in front of 
him. "Good to see you again, Torve," Han said as he stepped in.

 "You, too, Solo," the other said gravely, getting to his feet and offering Han his hand. 
"I've thanked Calrissian already, but I wanted to thank you, too. Both for the warning and 
for helping me get out of there. I'm in your debt."

 "No problem," Han waved the thanks away. "I take it thatis your ship in pit sixty-three?"

 "My employer's ship, yes," Torve said, grimacing. "Fortunately, there's nothing 
contraband in it at the moment¢I've already off-loaded. They obviously suspect me, 
though."

 "What kind of contraband were you running?" Lando asked, coming up behind Han. "If 
it's not a secret, that is?"

 Torve cocked an eyebrow. "No secret, but you're not going to believe it. I was running 
food."

 "You're right," Lando said. "I don't believe it."

 Torve nodded vaguely off to one side. "I didn't either, at first. Seems there's a clan of 
people living off in the southern hills who don't find much about the new government to 
appreciate."

 "Rebels?"

 "No, and that's what's strange about it," Torve said. "They're not rebelling or making 
trouble or even sitting on vital resources. They're simple people, and all they want is to be 
left alone to continue living that way. The government's apparently decided to make an 
example of them, and among other things has cut off all food and medical supplies going 
that way until they agree to fall into step like everyone else."

 "That sounds like this government," Lando agreed heavily. "Not much into regional 
autonomy of any kind."

 "Hence, we smuggle in food," Torve concluded. "Crazy business. Anyway, it's nice to 
see you two again. Nice to see you're still working together, too. So many teams have 
broken up over the past few years, especially since Jabba bought thereally heavy end of 
the hammer."

 Han exchanged glances with Lando. "Well, it's actually more like we'reback together," 
he corrected Torve. "We sort of wound up on the same side during the war. Up till 
then..."

 "Up till then I wanted to kill him," Lando explained helpfully. "No big deal, really."

 "Sure," Torve said guardedly, looking back and forth between them. "Let me guess: 
theFalcon , right? I remember hearing rumors that you stole it."

 Han looked at Lando, eyebrows raised."Stole it?"

 "Like I said, I was mad," Lando shrugged. "It wasn't an out-and-out theft, actually, 
though it came pretty close. I had a little semilegit clearinghouse for used ships at the 
time, and I ran short of money in a sabacc game Han and I were playing. I offered him 
his pick of any of my ships if he won." He threw Han a mock glare. "He wassupposed to 
go for one of the flashy chrome-plate yachts that had been collecting dust on the front 
row, not the freighter I'd been quietly upgrading on the side for myself."

 "You did a good job, too," Han said. "Though Chewie and I wound up pulling a lot of 
the stuff out and redoing it ourselves."

 "Nice," Lando growled. "Another crack like that and I may just take it back."

 "Chewie would probably take great exception to that," Han said. He fixed Torve with a 
hard look. "Of course, you knew all this already, didn't you."

 Torve grinned. "No offense, Solo. I like to feel out my customers before we do 
business¢get an idea of whether I can expect 'em to play straight with me. People who lie 
about their history usually lie about the job, too."

 "I trust we passed?"

 "Like babes in the tall grass," Torve nodded, still grinning. "So. What can Talon Karrde 
do for you?"

 Han took a careful breath. Finally. Now all he had to worry about was fouling this up. "I 
want to offer Karrde a deal: the chance to work directly with the New Republic."

 Torve nodded. "I'd heard that you were going around trying to push that scheme with 
other smuggling groups. The general feeling is that you're trying to set them up for 
Ackbar to take down."

 "I'm not," Han assured him. "Ackbar's not exactly thrilled at the idea, but he's accepted 
it. We need to get more shipping capacity from somewhere, and smugglers are the logical 
supply to tap."

 Torve pursed his lips. "From what I've heard it sounds like an interesting offer. 'Course, 
I'm not the one who makes decisions like that."

 "So take us to Karrde," Lando suggested. "Let Han talk to him directly."

 "Sorry, but he's at the main base at the moment," Torve said, shaking his head. "I can't 
