 On the other hand, if theydid stay... "But I suppose it wouldn't hurt us to stick around a 
little longer," he conceded. "All right, sure, we'll finish dinner."

 "Good," Karrde said. "It will just take a few minutes to get things put back together."

 "You took everything apart?" Lando asked.

 "Everything that might have indicated we had guests," Karrde said. "The Grand Admiral 
is highly observant, and I wouldn't have put it past him to know exactly how many of my 
associates are staying here at the moment."

 "Well, while you're getting things ready," Han said, "I want to go back to the ship and 
check on a couple of things."

 Karrde's eyes narrowed slightly. "But youwill be back."

 Han gave him an innocent smile. "Trust me."

 Karrde gazed at him a moment longer, then shrugged. "Very well. Watch yourselves, 
though. The local predators don't normally come this close in to our encampment, but 
there are exceptions."

 "We'll be careful," Han promised. "Come on, Lando."

 They headed back the way they'd come. "So what did we forget to do back at theFalcon 
?" Lando asked quietly as they reached the trees.

 "Nothing," Han murmured back. "I just thought it'd be a good time to go check out 
Karrde's storage sheds. Particularly the one that was supposed to have a prisoner in it."

 They went about five meters into the forest, then changed direction to circle the 
compound. A quarter of the way around the circle, they found a likely looking group of 
small buildings.

 "Look for a door with a lock," Lando suggested as they came out among the sheds. 
"Either permanent or temporary."

 "Right." Han peered through the darkness. "That one over there¢the one with two 
doors?"

 "Could be," Lando agreed. "Let's take a look."

 The left-most of the two doors did indeed have a lock. Or, rather, it hadhad a lock. "It's 
been shot off," Lando said, poking at it with a finger. "Strange."

 "Maybe the prisoner had friends," Han suggested, glancing around. There was no one 
else in sight. "Let's go inside."

 They slid the door open and went in, closing it behind them before turning on the light. 
The shed was less than half full, with most of the boxes piled against the right-hand wall. 
The exceptions to that rule...

 Han stepped over for a closer look. "Well, well," he murmured, gazing at the removed 
power outlet plate and the wires poking through the gap. "Someone's been busy over 
here."

 "Someone's been even busier over here," Lando commented from behind him. "Come 
have a look."

 Lando was crouched down beside the door, peering into the inside of the door lock 
mechanism. Like the outside, half of its covering plate had been blasted off. "That must 
have been one beaut of a shot," Han frowned, coming over.

 "It wasn't a single shot," Lando said, shaking his head. "The stuff in between is mostly 
intact." He pushed back the cover a little, poking at the electronics inside with his fingers. 
"Looks like our mysterious prisoner was tampering with the equipment."

 "I wonder how he got it open." Han glanced back at the removed power plate. "I'm 
going to take a look next door," he told Lando, stepping back to the entrance and tapping 
the release.

 The door didn't open. "Uh-oh," he muttered, trying again.

 "Wait a second¢I see the problem," Lando said, fiddling with something behind the 
plate. "There's a power supply been half spliced into the works..."

 Abruptly, the door slid open. "Back in a second," Han told him, and slipped outside.

 The shed's right-hand room wasn't much different from the other one. Except for one 
thing: in the center, in a space that had very obviously been cleared for the purpose, lay 
an open droid restraint collar.

 Han frowned down at it. The collar hadn't been properly put away, or even closed 
again¢hardly the way someone in an organization like Karrde's would be expected to take 
care of company equipment. Roughly in the center of the collar's open jaws were three 
faint marks on the floor. Skid marks, he decided, formed by the restrained droid's 
attempts to move or get free.

 Behind him, the door whispered open. Han spun around, blaster in hand¢

 "You seem to have gotten lost," Karrde said calmly. His eyes flicked around the room. 
"And to have lost General Calrissian along the way."

 Han lowered the blaster. "You need to tell your people to put their toys away when 
they're done," he said, nodding his head at the abandoned restraint collar. "You were 
holding a droid prisoner, too?"

 Karrde smiled thinly. "I see Ghent was talking out of turn again. Amazing, isn't it, how 
so many expert slicers know everything about computers and droids and yet don't know 
when to keep their mouths shut."

 "It's also amazing how so many expert smugglers don't know when to leave a messy 
deal alone," Han shot back. "So what's your Grand Admiral got you doing? Formal 
slaving, or just random kidnappings?"

 Karrde's eyes flashed. "I don't deal in slaves, Solo. Slavesor kidnapping. Never."

 "What was this one, then? An accident?"

 "I didn't ask for him to come into my life," Karrde countered. "Nor did I especially want 
him there."

 Han snorted. "You're stretching, Karrde. What'd he do, drop in out of the sky on top of 
you?"

 "As a matter of fact, that's very nearly the way it happened," Karrde said stiffly.

 "Oh, well, that's a good reason to lock someone up," Han said sardonically. "Who was 
he?"

 "That information's not for sale."

 "Maybe we don't need to buy it," Lando said from behind him.

 Karrde turned. "Ah," he said as Lando stepped past him into the room. "There you are. 
Exploring the other half of the shed, were you?"

 "Yeah, we don't stay lost very long," Han assured him. "What'd you find, Lando?"

 "This." Lando held up a tiny red cylinder with a pair of wires coming out of each end. 
"It's a micrel power supply¢the kind used for low-draw applications. Our prisoner wired 
it into the door lock control after the power lines had been burned away¢that's how he got 
out." He moved it a little closer. "The manufacturer's logo is small, but readable. 
Recognize it?"

 Han squinted at it. The script was alien, but it seemed vaguely familiar. "I've seen it 
before, but I don't remember where."

 "You saw it during the war," Lando told him, his gaze steady on Karrde. "It's the logo of 
the Sibha Habadeet."

 Han stared at the tiny cylinder, a strange chill running through him. The Sibha Habadeet 
had been one of the Alliance's major suppliers of micrel equipment. And their specialty 
had been¢ "That's a bioelectronic power supply?"

 "That's right," Lando said grimly. "Just like the kind that would have been put in, say, 
an artificial hand."

 Slowly, the muzzle of Han's blaster came up again to point at Karrde's stomach. "There 
was a droid in here," he told Lando. "The skid marks on the floor look just about right for 
an R2 unit." He raised his eyebrows. "Feel free to join the conversation anytime, Karrde."

 Karrde sighed, his face a mixture of annoyance and resignation. "What do you want me 
to say?¢that Luke Skywalker was a prisoner here? All right¢consider it said."

 Han felt his jaw tighten. And he and Lando had been right here. Blissfully unaware... 
"Where is he now?" he demanded.

 "I thought Ghent would have told you," Karrde said darkly. "He escaped in one of my 
Skipray blastboats." His lips twisted. "Crashing it in the process."

 "Hewhat? "

 "He's all right," Karrde assured him. "Or at least he was a couple of hours ago. The 
stormtroopers who went to investigate said that both wrecks were deserted." His eyes 
seemed to flatten, just for a minute. "I hope that means they're working together to make 
their way out."

 "You don't sound sure of that," Han prompted.

 The eyes flattened a little more. "Mara Jade was the one who went after him. She has a 
certain¢well, why mince words. In point of fact, she wants very much to kill him."

 Han threw a startled glance at Lando. "Why?"

 Karrde shook his head. "I don't know."

 For a moment the room was silent. "How did he get here?" Lando asked.

 "As I said, purely by accident," Karrde said. "No¢I take that back. It wasn't an accident 
for Mara¢she led us directly to his crippled starfighter."

 "How?"

 "Again, I don't know." He fixed Han with a hard look. "And before you ask, we had 
nothing to do with the damage to his ship. He'd burned out both hyperdrive motivators 
tangling with one of the Empire's Star Destroyers. If we hadn't picked him up, he'd 
almost certainly be dead by now."

 "Instead of roaming a forest with someone who still wants him that way," Han 
countered. "Yeah, you're a real hero."

 The hard look hardened even further. "The Imperials want Skywalker, Solo. They want 
him very badly. If you look carefully, you'll notice that Ididn't give him to them."

 "Because he escaped first."

 "He escaped because he was in this shed," Karrde retorted. "And he was in this shed 
because I didn't want the Imperials stumbling over him during their unannounced visit."

 He paused. "You'll also notice," he added quietly, "that I didn't turn the two ofyou over 
to them, either."

 Slowly, Han lowered the blaster. Anything said at the point of a gun was of course 
suspect; but the fact that Karrde had indeed not betrayed them to the Imperials was a 
strong argument in his favor.

 Or rather, he hadn't betrayed them yet. That could always change. "I want to see Luke's 
X-wing," he told Karrde.

 "Certainly," Karrde said. "I'd recommend not going there until tomorrow morning, 
though. We moved it somewhat farther into the forest than your ship; and therewill be 
predators roaming around it in the darkness."

 Han hesitated, then nodded. If Karrde had something subtle going here, he almost 
certainly would have already erased or altered the X-wing's computer log. A few more 
hours wouldn't make any difference. "All right. So what are we going to do about Luke?"

 Karrde shook his head, his gaze not quite focused on Han. "There's nothing we can do 
for them tonight. Not with vornskrs roaming the forest and the Grand Admiral still in 
orbit. Tomorrow... We'll have to discuss it, see what we can come up with." His focus 
came back, and with it a slightly ironic smile. "In the meantime, dinner should be ready 
by now. If you'll follow me...?"

  

 The dimly lit holographic art gallery had changed again, this time to a collection of 
remarkably similar flame-shaped works that seemed to pulsate and alter in form as 
Pellaeon moved carefully between the pedestals. He studied them as he walked, 
wondering where this batch had come from. "Have you found them, Captain?" Thrawn 
asked as Pellaeon reached the double display circle.

 He braced himself. "I'm afraid not, sir. We'd hoped that with the arrival of local nightfall 
we'd be able to get some results from the infrared sensors. But they don't seem able to 
penetrate the tree canopy, either."

 Thrawn nodded. "What about that pulse transmission we picked up just after sundown?"

 "We were able to confirm that it originated from the approximate location of the crash 
site," Pellaeon told him. "But it was too brief for a precise location check. The encrypt on 
it is a very strange one¢Decrypt thinks it might be a type of counterpart coding. They're 
still working on it."

 "They've tried all the known Rebellion encrypts, I presume."

 "Yes, sir, as per your orders."

 Thrawn nodded thoughtfully. "It looks like we're at something of a stalemate, then, 
Captain. At least as long as they're in the forest. Have you calculated their likely 
emergence points?"

 "There's really only one practical choice," Pellaeon said, wondering why they were 
making so much of a fuss over this. "A town called Hyllyard City, on the edge of the 
forest and almost directly along their path. It's the only population center anywhere for 
more than a hundred kilometers. With only the one survival pack between them, they 
almost have to come out there."

 "Excellent," Thrawn nodded. "I want you to detail three squads of stormtroopers to set 
up an observation post there. They're to assemble and depart ship immediately."

 Pellaeon blinked. "Stormtroopers, sir?"

 "Stormtroopers," Thrawn repeated, turning his gaze to one of the flame sculptures. 
"Better add half a biker scout unit, too, and three Chariot light assault vehicles."

 "Yes, sir," Pellaeon said cautiously. Stormtroopers were in critically short supply these 
days. To waste them like this, on something so utterly unimportant as a smuggler 
squabble...

 "Karrde lied to us, you see," Thrawn continued, as if reading Pellaeon's mind. 
"Whatever that little drama was this afternoon, it was not the common pursuit of a 
common thief. I'd like to know what, in fact, it was."

 "I... don't think I follow, sir."

 "It's very simple, Captain," Thrawn said, in that tone of voice he always seemed to use 
when explaining the obvious. "The pilot of the chase vehicle never reported in during the 
pursuit. Nor did anyone from Karrde's base communicate with him. We know that¢we'd 
have intercepted any such transmissions. No progress reports; no assistance requests; 
nothing but complete radio silence." He looked back at Pellaeon. "Speculation, Captain?"

 "Whatever it was," Pellaeon said slowly, "it was something they didn't want us knowing 
about. Beyond that..." He shook his head. "I don't know, sir. There could be any number 
of things they wouldn't want outsiders to know about. Theyare smugglers, after all."

 "Agreed." Thrawn's eyes seemed to glitter. "But now consider the additional fact that 
Karrde refused our invitation to join in the search for Skywalker... and the fact that this 
afternoon he implied the search was over." He raised an eyebrow. "What doesthat suggest 
to you, Captain?"

 Pellaeon felt his jaw drop. "You mean... that wasSkywalker in that Skipray?"

 "An interesting speculation, isn't it?" Thrawn agreed. "Unlikely, I'll admit. But likely 
enough to be worth following up on."

 "Yes, sir." Pellaeon glanced at the chrono, did a quick calculation. "Though if we stay 
here more than another day or two, we may have to move back the Sluis Van attack."

 "We're not moving Sluis Van," Thrawn said emphatically. "Our entire victory campaign 
against the Rebellion begins there, and I'll not have so complex and far-reaching a 
schedule altered. Not for Skywalker; not for anyone else." He nodded at the flame statues 
surrounding them. "Sluissi art clearly indicates a biannual cyclic pattern, and I want to hit 
them at their most sluggish point. We'll leave for our rendezvous with theInexorable and 
the cloaking shield test as soon as the troops and vehicles have been dropped. Three 
squads of stormtroopers should be adequate to handle Skywalker, if he is indeed here."

 His eyes bored into Pellaeon's face. "And to handle Karrde," he added softly, "if he 
turns out to be a traitor."

  

 The last bits of dark blue had faded from the tiny gaps in the canopy overhead, leaving 
nothing but blackness above them. Turning the survival kit's worklight to its lowest 
setting, Mara set it down and sank gratefully to the ground against a large tree bole. Her 
right ankle, twisted somehow in the Skipray crash, had started to ache again, and it felt 
good to get the weight off it.

 Skywalker was already stretched out a couple of meters on the other side of the 
worklight, his head pillowed on his tunic, his loyal droid standing at his side. She 
wondered if he'd guessed about the ankle, dismissed the question as irrelevant. She'd had 
worse injuries without being slowed down by them.

 "Reminds me of Endor," Skywalker said quietly as Mara arranged her glow rod and 
blaster in her lap where they'd be accessible. "A forest always sounds so busy at night."

 "Oh, it's busy, all right," Mara grunted. "A lot of the animals here are nocturnal. 
Including the vornskrs."

 "Strange," he murmured. "Karrde's pet vornskrs seemed wide enough awake in late 
afternoon."

 She looked across at him, mildly surprised he'd noticed that. "Actually, even in the wild 
they take small naps around the clock," she said. "I call them nocturnal because they do 
most of their hunting at night."

 Skywalker mulled that over for a moment. "Maybe we ought to travel at night, then," he 
suggested. "They'll be hunting us either way¢at least then we'd be awake and alert while 
they were on the prowl."

 Mara shook her head. "It'd be more trouble than it's worth. We need to be able to see the 
terrain as far ahead of us as possible if we're going to avoid running into dead ends. 
Besides, this whole forest is dotted with small clearings."

 "Through which a glow rod beam would show very clearly to an orbiting ship," he 
conceded. "Point. You seem to know a lot about this place."

 "It wouldn't take more than an observant pilot flying over the forest to see that," she 
growled. But he was right, she knew, as she eased back against the rough bark.Know your 
territory was the first rule that had been drilled into her... and the first thing she'd done 
after establishing herself in Karrde's organization had been to do precisely that. She'd 
studied the aerial maps of the forest and surrounding territory; had taken long walks, in 
both daylight and at night, to familiarize herself with the sights and sounds; had sought 
out and killed several vornskrs and other predators to learn the fastest ways of taking 
them down; had even talked one of Karrde's people into running bio tests on a crateload 
of native plants to find out which were edible and which weren't. Outside the forest, she 
knew something about the settlers, understood the local politics, and had stashed a small 
but adequate part of her earnings out where she could get hold of it.

 More than anyone else in Karrde's organization, she was equipped to survive outside the 
confines of his encampment. So why was she trying so hard to get back there?

 It wasn't for Karrde's sake¢that much she was sure of. All that he'd done for her¢her job, 
her position, her promotions¢she'd more than repaid with hard work and good service. 
She didn't owe him anything, any more than he owed her. Whatever the story was he'd 
concocted this afternoon to explain the Skipray chase to Thrawn, it would have been 
designed to protect his own neck, not hers; and if he saw that the Grand Admiral wasn't 
buying it, he was at perfect liberty to pull his group off Myrkr tonight and disappear 
down one of the other ratholes he had scattered throughout the galaxy.

 Except that he wouldn't. He would sit there, sending out search party after search party, 
and wait for Mara to come out of the forest. Even if she never did.

 Even if by doing so he overstayed Thrawn's patience.

 Mara clenched her teeth, the unpleasant image of Karrde pinned against a cell wall by 
an interrogation droid dancing in front of her eyes. Because she knew Thrawn¢knew the 
Grand Admiral's tenacity and the limits of his patience both. He would wait and watch, or 
set someone to do it for him, and follow through on Karrde's story.

 And if neither she nor Skywalker ever reappeared from the forest, he would almost 
certainly jump to the wrong conclusion. At which point he would take Karrde in for a 
professional Imperial interrogation, and eventually would find out who the escaping 
prisoner had been.

 And then he'd have Karrde put to death.

 Across from her, the droid's dome rotated a few degrees and it gave a quietly insistent 
gurgle. "I think Artoo's picked up something," Skywalker said, hiking himself up on his 
elbows.

 "No kidding," Mara said. She picked up her glow rod, pointed it at the shadow she'd 
already seen moving stealthily toward them, and flicked it on.

 A vornskr stood framed in the circle of light, its front claws dug into the ground, its 
whip tail pointed stiffly back and waving slowly up and down. It paid no attention to the 
light, but continued moving slowly toward Skywalker.

 Mara let it get another two paces, then shot it neatly through the head.

 The beast collapsed to the ground, its tail giving one last spasmodic twitch before doing 
likewise. Mara gave the rest of the area a quick sweep with the glow rod, then flicked it 
off. "Awfully good thing we have your droid's sensors along," she said sarcastically into 
the relative darkness.

 "Well,I wouldn't have known there was any danger without him," Skywalker came back 
wryly. "Thank you."

 "Forget it," she grunted.

 There was a short silence. "Are Karrde's pet vornskrs a different species?" Skywalker 
asked. "Or did he have their tails removed?"

 Mara peered across the gloom at him, impressed in spite of herself. Most men staring 
down a vornskr's gullet wouldn't have noticed a detail like that. "The latter," she told him. 
"They use those tails as whips¢pretty painful, and there's a mild poison in them, too. At 
first it was just that Karrde didn't want his people walking around with whip welts all 
over them; we found out later that removing the tails also kills a lot of their normal 
hunting aggression."

 "They seemed pretty domestic," he agreed. "Even friendly."

 Only they hadn't been friendly to Skywalker, she remembered. And here, the vornskr 
had ignored her and gone directly for him. Coincidence? "They are," she said aloud. 
"He's thought occasionally about offering them for sale as guard animals. Never gotten 
around to exploring the potential market."

 "Well, you can tell him I'd be glad to serve as a reference," Skywalker said dryly. 
"Having looked a vornskr square in the teeth, I can tell you it's not something the average 
intruder would like to do twice."

 Her lip twisted. "Get used to it," she advised him. "It's a long way to the edge of the 
forest."

 "I know." Skywalker lay back down again. "Fortunately, you seem to be an excellent 
shot."

 He fell silent. Getting ready to sleep... and probably assuming she was going to do the 
same.

 Wish away,she thought sardonically at him. Reaching into her pocket, she pulled out the 
survival kit's tube of stimpills. A steady stream of the things could ruin one's health in 
short order, but going to sleep five meters away from an enemy would ruin it a lot faster.

 She paused, tube in hand, and frowned at Skywalker. At his closed eyes and calm, 
apparently totally unworried face. Which seemed strange, because if anyone had ever had 
reason to be worried, it was he. Stripped of all his vaunted Jedi powers by a planetful of 
ysalamiri, trapped in a forest on a world whose name and location he didn't even know, 
with her, the Imperials, and the vornskrs lining up for the privilege of killing him¢he 
should by rights be wide-eyed with pumping adrenaline by now.

 Maybe he was just faking it, hoping she would lower her guard. It was probably 
something she would try, under reversed circumstances.

 But then, maybe there was more to him than met the eye. More than just a family name, 
a political position, and a bag of Jedi tricks.

 Her mouth tightened, and she ran her fingers along the side of the lightsaber hanging 
from her belt. Yes, of course there was more there. Whatever had happened at the end¢at 
that terrible, confused, life-destroying end¢it hadn't been his Jedi tricks that had saved 
him. It had been something else. Something she would make sure to find out from him 
before his own end came.

 She thumbed a stimpill from the tube and swallowed it, a fresh determination surging 
through her as she did so. No, the vornskrs weren't going to get Luke Skywalker. And 
neither were the Imperials. When the time came, she would kill him herself. It was her 
right, and her privilege, and her duty.

 Shifting to a more comfortable position against her tree, she settled in to wait out the 
night.

  

 The nighttime sounds of the forest came faintly from the distance, mixed in with the 
faint sounds of civilization from the building at his back. Karrde sipped at his cup, gazing 
into the darkness, feeling fatigue tugging at him as he'd seldom felt it before.

 In a single day, his whole life had just been turned over.

 Beside him, Drang raised his head and turned it to the right. "Company?" Karrde asked 
him, looking in that direction. A shadowy figure, hardly visible in the starlight, was 
moving toward him. "Karrde?" Aves's voice called softly.

 "Over here," Karrde told him. "Go get a chair and join me."

 "This is okay," Aves said, coming over beside him and sitting down cross-legged on the 
ground. "I've got to get back to Central pretty soon, anyway."

 "The mystery message?"

 "Yeah. What in the worlds was Mara thinking of?"

 "I don't know," Karrde admitted. "Something clever, though."

 "Probably," Aves conceded. "I just hope we're going to be clever enough to decrypt it."

 Karrde nodded. "Did Solo and Calrissian get bedded down all right?"

 "They went back to their ship," Aves said, his voice scowling. "I don't think they trust 
us."

 "Under the circumstances, you can hardly blame them." Karrde reached down to scratch 
Drang's head. "Maybe pulling Skywalker's computer logs tomorrow morning will help 
convince them we're on their side."

 "Yeah. Are we?"

 Karrde pursed his lips. "We don't really have a choice anymore, Aves. They're our 
guests."

 Aves umphed. "The Grand Admiral isn't going to be happy."

 Karrde shrugged. "They're our guests," he repeated.

 In the darkness, he sensed Aves shrug back. He understood, Aves did¢understood the 
requirements and duties of a host. Unlike Mara, who'd wanted him to send theMillennium 
Falcon away.

 He wished now that he'd listened to her. Wished it very much indeed.

 "I'll want you to organize a search party for tomorrow morning," he told Aves. 
"Probably futile, all things considered, but it has to be tried."

 "Right. Do we defer to the Imperials in that regard?"

 Karrde grimaced to himself. "I doubt if they'll be doing any more searching. That ship 
that sneaked out from the Star Destroyer an hour ago looked suspiciously like a 
stripped-down assault shuttle. My guess is that they'll set up in Hyllyard City and wait for 
Mara and Skywalker to come to them."

 "Sounds reasonable," Aves said. "What if we don't get to them first?"

 "We'll just have to take them away from the stormtroopers, I suppose. Think you can put 
a team together for the purpose?"

 Aves snorted gently. "Easier done than said. I've sat in on a couple of conversations 
since you made the announcement, and I can tell you that feelings in camp are running 
pretty strong. Hero of the Rebellion and all that aside, a bunch of our people figure they 
owe Skywalker big for getting them out of permanent hock to Jabba the Hutt."

 "I know," Karrde said grimly. "And all that warm enthusiasm could be a problem. 
Because if we can't get Skywalker free from the Imperials... well, we can't let them have 
him alive."

 There was a long silence from the shadow beside him. "I see," Aves said at last, very 
quietly. "It probably won't make any difference, you know, in what Thrawn suspects."

 "Suspicion is better than unequivocal proof," Karrde reminded him. "And if we can't 
intercept them while they're still in the forest, it may be the best we're going to get."

