was studiously eating away at his appetizers. "Well, figure it out fast, buddy," he told 
Lando quietly. "We might be about to wear out our welcome."

 "I'm working on it. What do we do until then?" Another droid was trundling up, his tray 
laden with filled soup bowls. "Until then," Han said, "I guess we enjoy our meal."

  

 "He came in from lightspeed about ten minutes ago," Aves said tightly, tapping the 
mark on the sensor display. "Captain Pellaeon signaled two minutes later. Asking for you 
personally."

 Karrde rubbed a finger gently across his lower lip. "Any signs of landing craft or 
fighters?" he asked.

 "Not yet," Aves shook his head. "But from his insertion angle, I'd guess he'll be 
dropping some soon¢downpoint probably somewhere in this part of the forest."

 Karrde nodded thoughtfully. Such propitious timing... for someone. "Where did we 
wind up putting theMillennium Falcon ?"

 "It's over on pad eight," Aves said.

 Back in under the edge of the forest, then. That was good¢the high metal content of 
Myrkr's trees would help shield it from theChimera 's sensors. "Take two men and go 
throw a camo net over it," he told the other. "There's no point in taking chances. And do 
it quietly¢we don't want to alarm our guests."

 "Right." Aves pulled off his headset and headed out of the room at a brisk trot.

 Karrde looked at Mara. "Interesting timing, this visit."

 She met his gaze without flinching. "If that's a subtle way of asking whether or not I 
called them, don't bother. I didn't."

 He cocked his head. "Really. I'm a little surprised."

 "So am I," she countered. "I should have thought of it days ago." She nodded toward the 
headset. "You going to talk to him or not?"

 "I don't suppose I have much choice." Mentally bracing himself, Karrde sat down in the 
seat Aves had just vacated and touched a switch. "Captain Pellaeon, this is Talon 
Karrde," he said. "My apologies for the delay. What can I do for you?"

 The distant image of theChimaera disappeared, but it wasn't Pellaeon's face that 
replaced it. This face was a nightmare image: long and lean, with pale blue skin and eyes 
that glittered like two bits of red-hot metal. "Good afternoon, Captain Karrde," the other 
said, his voice clear and smooth and very civilized. "I'm Grand Admiral Thrawn."

 "Good afternoon, Admiral," Karrde nodded in greeting, taking it in stride. "This is an 
unexpected honor. May I ask the purpose of your call?"

 "Part of it I'm sure you've already guessed," Thrawn told him. "We find ourselves in 
need of more ysalamiri, and would like your permission to harvest some more of them."

 "Certainly," Karrde said, a funny feeling starting to tug at the back of his mind. There 
was something strange about Thrawn's posture... and the Imperials hardly needed his 
permission to come pull ysalamiri off their trees. "If I may say so, you seem to be running 
through them rather quickly. Are you having trouble keeping them alive?"

 Thrawn raised an eyebrow in polite surprise. "None of them has died, Captain. We 
simply need more of them."

 "Ah," Karrde said. "I see."

 "I doubt that. But no matter. It occurred to me, Captain, that as long as we were coming 
here, it might be a good time for us to have a little talk."

 "What sort of talk?"

 "I'm sure we can find some topics of mutual interest," Thrawn said. "For example, I'm in 
the market for new warships."

 Long practice kept any guilty reaction from leaking out through Karrde's face or voice. 
But it was a near thing. "Warships?" he asked carefully.

 "Yes." Thrawn favored him with a thin smile. "Don't worry¢I'm not expecting you to 
actually have any capital starships in stock. But a man with your contacts may possibly 
be able to acquire them."

 "I doubt that my contacts are quite that extensive, Admiral," Karrde told him, trying 
hard to read that not-quite-human face. Did he know? Or was the question merely an 
exquisitely dangerous coincidence? "I don't think we'll be able to help you."

 Thrawn's expression didn't change... but abruptly there was an edge of menace to his 
smile. "You'll try anyway. And then there's the matter of your refusal to help in our 
search for Luke Skywalker."

 Some of the tightness in Karrde's chest eased. This was safer territory. "I'm sorry we 
were also unable to help there, Admiral. As I explained before to your representative, we 
were under several tight scheduling deadlines at the time. We simply couldn't spare the 
ships."

 Thrawn's eyebrows lifted slightly. "At the time, you say? But the search is still going on, 
Captain."

 Silently, Karrde cursed himself for the slip. "Still going on?" he echoed, frowning. "But 
your representative said Skywalker was flying an Incom X-wing starfighter. If you 
haven't found him by now, his life support will surely have given out."

 "Ah," Thrawn said, nodding. "I see the misunderstanding. Normally, yes, you'd be 
correct. But Skywalker is a Jedi; and among a Jedi's bag of tricks is the ability to go into 
a sort of comatose state." He paused, and the image on the screen flickered momentarily. 
"So there's still plenty of time for you to join in the hunt."

 "I see," Karrde said. "Interesting. I suppose that's just one of the many things the 
average person never knew about Jedi."

 "Perhaps we'll have time to discuss such things when I arrive on Myrkr," Thrawn said.

 Karrde froze, a horrible realization shooting through him like an electric shock. That 
brief flickering of Thrawn's image¢

 A glance at the auxiliary sensor display confirmed it: threeLambda -class shuttles and a 
full TIE fighter escort had left theChimaera , heading toward the surface. "I'm afraid we 
don't have much to entertain you with," he said between suddenly stiff lips. Certainly not 
on such short notice."

 "No need for entertainment," Thrawn assured him. "As I said, I'm simply coming for a 
talk. Abrief talk, of course; I know how busy you are."

 "I appreciate your consideration," Karrde said. "If you'll excuse me, Admiral, I need to 
begin the preparations to receive you."

 "I look forward to our meeting," Thrawn said. His face vanished, and the display 
returned to its distant view of theChimaera .

 For a long moment Karrde just sat there, the possibilities and potential disasters flipping 
through his mind at top speed. "Get on the comlink to Chin," he told Mara. "Tell him we 
have Imperial guests coming, and he's to begin preparations to receive them properly. 
Then go to pad eight and have Aves move theMillennium Falcon farther back under 
cover. Go there in person¢theChimaera and its shuttles might be able to tap into our 
comlink transmissions."

 "What about Solo and Calrissian?"

 Karrde pursed his lips. "We'll have to get them out, of course. Move them into the 
forest, perhaps at or near their ship. I'd better deal with that myself."

 "Why not turn them over to Thrawn?"

 He looked up at her. At those burning eyes and that rigid, tightly controlled face... "With 
no offer of a bounty?" he asked. "Relying on the Grand Admiral's generosity after the 
fact?"

 "I don't find that a compelling reason," Mara said bluntly.

 "Neither do I," he countered coldly. "What Ido find compelling is that they're our guests. 
They've sat at our table and eaten our food... and like it or not, that means they're under 
our protection."

 Mara's lip twitched. "And do these rules of hospitality apply to Skywalker, too?" she 
asked sardonically.

 "You know they don't," he said. "But now is not the time or the place to turn him over to 
the Empire, even if that's the way the decision ultimately goes. Do you understand?"

 "No," she growled. "I don't."

 Karrde eyed her, strongly tempted to tell her that she didn't need to understand, only to 
obey. "It's a matter of relative strength," he told her instead. "Here on the ground, with an 
Imperial Star Destroyer orbiting overhead, we have no bargaining position at all. I 
wouldn't do business under such circumstances even if Thrawn was the most trustworthy 
client in the galaxy. Which he's not.Now do you understand?"

 She took a deep breath, let it out. "I don't agree," she gritted. "But I'll accept your 
decision."

 "Thank you. Perhaps after the Imperials leave, you can ask General Calrissian about the 
perils of making bargains while stormtroopers are strolling around your territory." Karrde 
looked back at the display. "So.Falcon moved; Solo and Calrissian moved. Skywalker 
and the droid should be all right where they are¢the four shed has enough shielding to 
keep out anything but a fairly determined probe."

 "And if Thrawnis determined?"

 "Then we may have trouble," Karrde agreed calmly. "On the other hand, I doubt that 
Thrawn would be coming down himself if he thought there was the possibility of a 
firefight. The upper military ranks don't achieve that status by risking their own lives 
unnecessarily." He nodded at the door. "Enough talk. You have your job; I have mine. 
Let's get to them."

 She nodded and turned to the door; and as she did so, a sudden thought struck him. 
"Where did you put Skywalker's lightsaber?" he asked.

 "It's in my room," she said, turning back. "Why?"

 "Better get it and put it somewhere else. Lightsabers aren't supposed to be highly 
detectable, but there's no point in taking chances. Put it in with the resonator cavities in 
three shed; they ought to provide adequate shielding from stray sensor probes."

 "Right." She regarded him thoughtfully. "What was all that business about capital 
starships?"

 "You heard everything that was said."

 "I know. I was talking about your reaction to it."

 He grimaced to himself. "I'd hoped it wasn't that obvious."

 "It wasn't." She waited expectantly.

 He pursed his lips. "Ask me again later. Right now, we have work to do."

 For another second she studied him. Then, without a word, she nodded and left.

 Taking a deep breath, Karrde got to his feet. First thing to do would be to get back to the 
dining room and inform his guests of the sudden change in plans. And after that, to 
prepare himself for a face-to-face confrontation with the most dangerous man in the 
Empire. With Skywalker and spare warships as two of the topics of conversation.

 It was going to be a most interesting afternoon.

  

 "Okay, Artoo," Luke called as he made the last of the connections. "I think we're ready 
to try it. Cross your fingers."

 From the next room came a complicated series of electronic jabbers. Probably, Luke 
decided, the droid reminding him that he didn't have any fingers to cross.

 Fingers. For a moment Luke looked down at his right hand, flexing his fingers and 
feeling the unpleasant pins-and-needles tingling/numbness there. It had been five years 
since he'd really thought of the hand as being a machine attached to his arm. Now, 
suddenly, it was impossible to think of it as anything but that.

 Artoo beeped impatiently. "Right," Luke agreed, forcing his attention away from his 
hand as best he could and moving the end of the wire toward what he hoped was the 
proper contact point. It could have been worse, he realized: the hand could have been 
designed with only a single power supply, in which case he wouldn't have even this much 
use of it. "Here goes," he said, and touched the wire.

 And with no fuss or dramatics whatsoever, the door slid quietly open.

 "Got it," Luke hissed. Carefully, trying not to lose the contact point, he leaned over and 
peered outside.

 The sun was starting to sink behind the trees, throwing long shadows across the 
compound. From his position Luke could see only a little of the grounds, but what he 
could see seemed to be deserted. Setting his feet, he let go of the wire and dived for the 
doorway.

 With the contact broken, the door slid shut again, nearly catching his left ankle as he hit 
the ground and rolled awkwardly into a crouch. He froze, waiting to see if the noise 
would spark any reaction. But the silence continued; and after a few seconds, he got to 
his feet and ran to the shed's other door.

 Artoo had been right: there was indeed no lock on this half of the shed. Luke hit the 
release, threw one last glance around, and slipped inside.

 The droid beeped an enthusiastic greeting, bobbing back and forth awkwardly in the 
restraint collar, a torus-shaped device that fit snugly around his legs and wheels. "Quiet, 
Artoo," Luke warned the other, kneeling down to examine the collar. "And hold still."

 He'd been worried that the collar would be locked or intertwined into Artoo's wheel 
system in some way, requiring special tools to disengage. But the device was much 
simpler than that¢it merely held enough of the droid's weight off the floor so that he 
couldn't get any real traction. Luke released a pair of clasps and pushed the hinged halves 
apart, and Artoo was free. "Come on," he told the droid, and headed back to the door.

 As far as he could see, the compound was still deserted. "The ship's around that way," 
he whispered, pointing toward the central building. "Looks like the best approach would 
be to circle to the left, keeping inside the trees as much as we can. Can you handle the 
terrain?"

 Artoo raised his scanner, beeped a cautious affirmative. "Okay. Keep an eye out for 
anyone coming out of the buildings."

 They'd made it into the woods, and were perhaps a quarter of the way around the circle, 
when Artoo gave a warning chirp. "Freeze," Luke whispered, stopping dead beside a 
large tree trunk and hoping they were enough in the shadows. His own black outfit should 
blend adequately into the darkening forest background, but Artoo's white and blue were 
another matter entirely.

 Fortunately, the three men who came out of the central building never looked in their 
direction, but headed straight toward the edge of the forest.

 Headed there at a fast, determined trot... and just before they disappeared into the trees, 
all three drew their blasters.

 Artoo moaned softly. "I don't like it, either," Luke told him. "Let's hope it doesn't have 
anything to do with us. All clear?"

 The droid beeped affirmation, and they started off again. Luke kept half an eye on the 
forest behind them, remembering Mara's veiled hints about large predators. It could have 
been a lie, of course, designed to discourage him from trying to escape. For that matter, 
he'd never spotted any real evidence that the window of his previous room had had an 
alarm on it.

 Artoo beeped again. Luke twisted his attention back to the compound... and froze.

 Mara had stepped out of the central building.

 For what seemed like a long time she just stood there on the doorstep, looking 
distractedly up into the sky. Luke watched her, not daring even to look down to see how 
well concealed Artoo might be. If she turned in their direction¢or if she went to the shed 
to see how he was doing...

 Abruptly, she looked down again, a determined expression on her face. She turned 
toward the second barracks building and headed off at a brisk walk.

 Luke let out a breath he hadn't realized he'd been holding. They were far from being out 
of danger¢all Mara had to do was turn her head 90 degrees to her left and she'd be 
looking directly at them. But something about her posture seemed to indicate that her 
attention and thoughts were turned inward.

 As if she'd suddenly made a hard decision...

 She went into the barracks, and Luke made a quick decision of his own. "Come on, 
Artoo," he murmured. "It's getting too crowded out here. We're going to cut farther into 
the forest, come up on the ships from behind."

 It was, fortunately, a short distance to the maintenance hangar and the group of ships 
parked alongside it. They arrived after only a few minutes¢to discover their X-wing gone.

 "No, I don't know where they've moved it to," Luke gritted, looking around as best he 
could while still staying under cover. "Can your sensors pick it up?"

 Artoo beeped a negative, adding a chirping explanation Luke couldn't even begin to 
follow. "Well, it doesn't matter," he reassured the droid. "We'd have had to put down 
somewhere else on the planet and find something with a working hyperdrive, anyway. 
We'll just skip that step and take one of these."

 He glanced around, hoping to find a Z-95 or Y-wing or something else he was at least 
marginally familiar with. But the only ships he recognized were a Corellian Corvette and 
what looked like a downsized bulk freighter. "Got any suggestions?" he asked Artoo.

 The droid beeped a prompt affirmative, his little sensor dish settling on a pair of long, 
lean ships about twice the length or Luke's X-wing. Fighters, obviously, but not like 
anything the Alliance had ever used. "One of those?" he asked doubtfully.

 Artoo beeped again, a distinct note of impatience to the sound. "Right; we're a little 
pressed for time," Luke agreed.

 They made it across to one of the fighters without incident. Unlike the X-wing design, 
the entrance was a hinged hatchway door in the side¢possibly one reason Artoo had 
chosen it, Luke decided as he manhandled the droid inside. The pilot's cockpit wasn't 
much roomier than an X-wing's, but directly behind it was a three-seat tech/weapons 
area. The seats weren't designed for astromech droids, of course, but with a little 
ingenuity on Luke's part and some stretch on the restraints', he managed to get Artoo 
wedged between two of the seats and firmly strapped in place. "Looks like everything's 
already on standby," he commented, glancing at the flickering lights on the control 
boards. "There's an outlet right there¢give everything a quick check while I strap in. With 
a little luck, maybe we can be out of here before anyone even knows we're gone."

  

 She had delivered the open comlink message to Chin, and the quieter ones to Aves and 
the others at theMillennium Falcon ; and as she stalked her way glowering across the 
compound toward the number three shed, Mara decided once more that she hated the 
universe.

 She'd been the one who'd found Skywalker. She, by herself, alone. There was no 
question about that; no argument even possible. It should be she, not Karrde, who had the 
final say on his fate.

 I should have left him out there,she told herself bitterly as she stomped across the beaten 
ground.Should have just let him die in the cold of space. She'd considered that, too, at the 
time. But if he'd died out there, all alone, she might never have known for sure that he 
was, in fact, dead.

 And she certainly wouldn't have had the satisfaction of killing him herself.

 She looked down at the lightsaber clenched in her hand, watching the afternoon sunlight 
glint from the silvery metal as she hefted its weight. She could do it now, she knew. 
Could go in there to check on him and claim he had tried to jump her. Without the Force 
to call on, he would be an easy target, even for someone like her who hadn't picked up a 
lightsaber more than a handful of times in her life. It would be easy, clean, and very fast.

 And she didn't owe Karrde anything, no matter how well his organization might have 
treated her. Not about something like this.

 And yet...

 She was coming up on four shed, still undecided, when she heard the faint whine of a 
repulsorlift.

 She peered up into the sky, shading her eyes with her free hand as she tried to spot the 
incoming ship. But nothing was visible... and as the whine grew louder, she realized 
abruptly that it was the sound of one of their own vehicles. She spun around and looked 
over toward the maintenance hangar¢

 Just in time to see one of their two Skipray blastboats rise above the treetops.

 For a pair of heartbeats she stared at the ship, wondering what in the Empire Karrde 
thought he was doing. Sending an escort or pilot ship for the Imperials, perhaps?

 And then, abruptly, it clicked.

 She twisted back and sprinted for the four shed, pulling her blaster from its forearm 
sheath as she ran. The lock on the room inexplicably refused to open; she tried it twice 
and then blasted it.

 Skywalker was gone.

 She swore, viciously, and ran out into the compound. The Skipray had shifted to 
forward motion now, disappearing behind the trees to the west. Jamming her blaster back 
into its sheath, she grabbed the comlink off her belt¢

 And swore again. The Imperials could be here at any minute, and any mention of 
Skywalker's presence would land them all in very deep trouble indeed.

 Which left her with exactly one option.

 She reached the second Skipray at a dead run and had it in the air within two minutes. 
Skywalker would not¢wouldnot ¢get away now.

 Kicking the drive to full power, she screamed off in pursuit.

  

 Chapter 23

 They showed up almost simultaneously on the scopes: the other of Karrde's fighter ships 
pursuing him from behind, and the Imperial Star Destroyer in orbit far overhead. "I 
think," Luke called back to Artoo, "that we're in trouble."

 The droid's reply was almost swallowed up in the roar as Luke gingerly eased the drive 
up as high as he dared. The strange fighter's handling wasn't even remotely like anything 
he'd ever flown before; slightly reminiscent of the snowspeeders the Alliance had used on 
Hoth, but with the kind of sluggish response time that implied a great deal of armor and 
engine mass. With time, he was pretty sure he'd be able to master it.

 But time was something he was rapidly running out of.

 He risked a glance at the aft-vision display. The other fighter was coming up fast, with 
no more than a minute or two now separating the two ships. Obviously, the pilot had far 
more experience with the craft than Luke had. That, or else such a fierce determination to 
recapture Luke that it completely overrode normal common-sense caution.

 Either way, it meant Mara Jade.

 The fighter dipped a little too deep, scraping its ventral tail fin against the tops of the 
trees and drawing a sharp squeal of protest from Artoo. "Sorry," Luke called back, 
feeling a fresh surge of perspiration break out on his forehead as he again carefully eased 
the drive up a notch. Speaking of overriding common sense... But at the moment, sticking 
to the treetops was about the only option he had. The forest below, for some unknown 
reason, seemed to have a scattering or scrambling effect on sensor scans, both detection 
and navigational. Staying low forced his pursuer to stay low, too, lest she lose visual 
contact with him against the mottled forest backdrop, and also at least partially hid him 
from the orbiting Star Destroyer.

 The Star Destroyer. Luke glanced at the image on his overhead scope, feeling his 
stomach tighten. At least he knew now who the company was Mara had mentioned. It 
looked like he'd gotten out just in the nick of time.

 On the other hand, perhaps the move to that storage shed implied that Karrde had 
decided not to sell him to the Imperials after all. It might be worth asking Karrde about 
someday. Preferably from a great distance.

 Behind him, Artoo suddenly trilled a warning. Luke jerked in his seat, eyes flickering 
across the scopes as he searched for the source of the trouble¢

 And jerked again. There, directly above his dorsal tail fin and less than a ship's length 
away, was the other fighter.

 "Hang on!" Luke shouted at Artoo, clenching his teeth tightly together. His one chance 
now was to pull a drop-kick Koiogran turn, killing his forward momentum and 
loop-rolling into another direction. Twisting the control stick with one hand, he jammed 
the throttle forward with the other¢

 And abruptly, the cockpit canopy exploded into a slapping tangle of tree branches, and 
he was thrown hard against his restraints as the fighter spun and twisted and rolled out of 
control.

 The last thing he heard before the darkness took him was Artoo's shrill electronic 
scream.

  

 The three shuttles came to a perfectly synchronized landing as, overhead, the TIE 
fighter escort shot by in equally perfect formation. "The Empire's parade-ground 
expertise hasn't eroded, anyway," Aves murmured.

 "Quiet," Karrde murmured back, watching the shuttle ramps lower to the ground. The 
center one, almost certainly, would be Thrawn's.

 Marching with blaster rifles held ceremonially across their chests, a line of 
stormtroopers filed down each of the three ramps. Behind them, emerging not from the 
center but from the rightmost of the shuttles, came a handful of midranking officers. 
Following them came a short, wiry being of unknown race with dark gray skin, bulging 
eyes, a protruding jaw, and the look of a bodyguard. Following him came Grand Admiral 
Thrawn.

 So much,Karrde thought,for him doing things the obvious way. It would be something to 
make a note of for future reference.

 With his small reception committee beside him, he walked toward the approaching 
group of Imperials, trying to ignore the stares of the stormtroopers. "Grand Admiral 
Thrawn," he nodded in greeting. "Welcome to our little corner of Myrkr. I'm Talon 
Karrde."

 "Pleased to meet you, Captain," Thrawn said, inclining his head slightly. Those glowing 
eyes, Karrde decided, were even more impressive in person than they were on a comm 
display. And considerably more intimidating.

 "I apologize for our somewhat less than formal greeting," Karrde continued, waving a 
hand at his group. "We don't often entertain people of your status here."

 Thrawn cocked a blue-black eyebrow. "Really. I'd have thought a man in your position 
would be used to dealing with the elite. Particularly high planetary officials whose 
cooperation, shall we say, you find you require?"

 Karrde smiled easily. "We deal with the elite from time to time. But not here. This 
is¢was, I should say," he added, glancing significantly at the stormtroopers, "¢our private 
operations base."

 "Of course," Thrawn said. "Interesting drama a few minutes ago out there to the west. 
Tell me about it."

 With an effort, Karrde hid a grimace. He'd hoped the sensor-scrambling effect of 
Myrkr's trees would have hidden the Skipray chase from Thrawn's view. Obviously, it 
hadn't. "Merely a small internal problem," he assured the Grand Admiral. "A former and 
somewhat disgruntled employee broke into one of our storage sheds, stole some 
merchandise, and made off with one of our ships. Another of our people is in pursuit."

 "Wasin pursuit, Captain," Thrawn corrected lazily, those eyes seeming to burn into 
Karrde's face. "Or didn't you know they both went down?"

 Karrde stared at him, a thin needle of ice running through him. "I didn't know that, no," 
he said. "Our sensors¢the metallic content of the trees fouls them up badly."

 "We had a higher observation angle," Thrawn said. "It looked as if the first ship hit the 
trees, with the pursuer getting caught in the slipstream." He regarded Karrde thoughtfully. 
"I take it the pursuer was someone special?"

 Karrde let his face harden a bit. "All my associates are special," he said, pulling out his 
comlink. "Please excuse me a moment; I have to get a rescue team organized."

 Thrawn took a long step forward, reaching two pale blue fingers to cover the top of the 
comlink. "Permit me," he said smoothly. "Troop commander?"

 One of the stormtroopers stepped forward. "Sir?"

 "Take a detail out to the crash site," Thrawn ordered, his eyes still on Karrde. "Examine 
the wreckage, and bring back any survivors. And anything that looks like it wouldn't 
normally belong in a Skipray blastboat."

 "Yes, sir." The other gestured, and one of the columns of stormtroopers turned and 
retraced their steps up the ramp of the left-most shuttle.

 "I appreciate your assistance, Admiral," Karrde said, his mouth suddenly a little dry. 
"But it really isn't necessary."

 "On the contrary, Captain," Thrawn said softly. "Your assistance with the ysalamiri has 
left us in your debt. How better for us to repay you?"

 "How better, indeed?" Karrde murmured. The ramp lifted into place, and with the hum 
of repulsorlifts, the shuttle rose into the air. The cards were dealt, and there was nothing 
