 For a long heartbeat Luke just stared at the Frigate... and then, like pieces clicking 
together in a puzzle, it all fell into place. The mole miners, the undermanned and 
underdefended capital ships that the New Republic had been forced to press into shipping 
service, the Imperial fleet out there that seemed to be making no real effort to push its 
way past the system's defenses¢

 And a New Republic Star Cruiser, mole miner planted firmly on its side, that had just 
fired on Wedge's X-wing.

 He took a moment to scan the sky around him. Moving with deceptive slowness through 
the continuing starfighter battle, a number of warships were beginning to pull out. "We've 
got to stop them," he told the others.

 "Good thinking," Han agreed. "How?"

 "Is there any way we can get aboard them ourselves?" he asked. "Lando said the mole 
miners were two-man ships¢the Imperials can't possibly have packed more than four or 
five stormtroopers in each one of them."

 "The way those warships are manned at the moment, four stormtroopers would be 
plenty," Wedge pointed out.

 "Yes, but I could take them," Luke said.

 "On all fifty ships?" Han countered. "Besides, you blast a hatch open to vacuum and 
you'll have pressure bulkheads closing all over the ship. Take you forever to even get to 
the bridge."

 Luke gritted his teeth; but Han was right. "Then we have to disable them," he said. 
"Knock out their engines or control systems or something. If they get out to the perimeter 
and those Star Destroyers, we'll never see them again."

 "Oh, we'll see them again," Han growled. "Pointed straight back at us. You're 
right¢disabling as many as we can is our best shot. We're never going to stop all fifty, 
though."

 "We don't have fifty to stop, at least not yet," Wedge put in. "There are still twelve mole 
miners that haven't attached themselves to ships."

 "Good¢let's take them out first," Han said. "You got vectors on them?"

 "Feeding your computer now."

 "Okay... okay, here we go." TheFalcon twisted around and headed off in a new 
direction. "Luke, get on the comm and tell Sluis Control what's happening," he added. 
"Tell them not to let any ships out of the orbit-dock area."

 "Right." Luke switched channels on the comm; and as he did so, he was suddenly aware 
of a slight change in sense from theFalcon 's cockpit. "Han? You all right?"

 "Huh? Sure. Why?"

 "I don't know. You seemed to change."

 "I had half a grip on some idea," Han said. "But it's gone now. Come on, make that call. 
I want you back on the quads when we get there."

 The call to Sluis Control was over well before they reached their target mole miner. 
"They thank us for the information," Luke reported to the others, "but they say they don't 
have anything to spare at the moment to help us."

 "Probably don't," Han agreed. "Okay, I see two TIE fighters running escort. Wedge, you 
and Rogue Five take them out while Luke and I hit the mole miner."

 "Got it," Wedge confirmed. The two X-wings shot past Luke's canopy, flaring apart into 
intercept mode as the TIE fighters broke formation and came around to meet the attack.

 "Luke, try to blow it apart instead of disintegrating it," Han suggested. "Let's see how 
many people the Imperials have got stuffed inside."

 "Got it," Luke said. The mole miner was in his sights now. Adjusting his power level 
down, he fired.

 The truncated cone flared as the metal dead center of the shot boiled away into glowing 
gas. The rest of the craft seemed intact, though, and Luke was just lining up for a second 
shot when the hatch at the top abruptly popped open.

 And through the opening, a monstrous, robotlike figure came charging out.

 "What¢?"

 "It's a spacetrooper," Han snapped back. "A stormtrooper in zero-gee armor. Hang on."

 He spun theFalcon around away from the spacetrooper, but not before there was a flash 
from a protuberance atop the other's backpack and the hull around Luke slammed with a 
violent concussion. Han rolled the ship around, blocking Luke's view, as another 
concussion rocked them.

 And then they were pulling away¢pulling away, but with agonizing slowness. Luke 
swallowed hard, wondering what kind of damage they'd taken.

 "Han, Luke¢you all right?" Wedge's voice called anxiously.

 "Yeah, for now," Han called back. "You get the TIE fighters?"

 "Yes. I think the mole miner's still underway, though."

 "Well, then, blast it," Han said. "Nothing cute; just blow it apart. But watch out for that 
spacetrooper¢he's using miniature proton torpedoes or something. I'm trying to draw him 
away; I don't know if he'll fall for it."

 "He's not," Wedge said grimly. "He's staying right on top of the mole miner. They're 
heading for a passenger liner¢looks like they'll make it, too."

 Han swore under his breath. "Probably got a few regular stormtrooper buddies still in 
there. All right, I guess we do this the hard way. Hang on, Luke¢we're going to ram him."

 "We'rewhat? "

 Luke's last word was lost in the roar from the engines as Han sent theFalcon flying 
straight out and then around in a hard turn. The mole miner and spacetrooper came back 
into Luke's line of sight¢

 Wedge had been wrong. The spacetrooper wasn't standing by the damaged mole miner; 
he was, in fact, sidling quickly away from it. The twin protuberances on top of his 
backpack began flashing again, and a couple of seconds later theFalcon 's hull began 
ringing with proton torpedo blasts. "Get ready," Han called.

 Luke braced himself, trying not to think about what would happen if one of those 
torpedoes hit his canopy¢and trying, too, not to wonder if Han could really ram the 
spacetrooper without also plowing into the passenger liner directly behind him. Ignoring 
the proton blasts, theFalcon continued accelerating¢

 And without warning, Han dropped the ship beneath the spacetrooper's line of fire. 
"Wedge:go!"

 From beneath Luke's line of sight an X-wing flashed upward, laser cannon blazing.

 And the mole miner shattered into flaming dust.

 "Good shot," Han told him, a note of satisfaction in his voice as he veered underneath 
the liner, nearly taking theFalcon 's main sensor dish off in the process. "There you go, 
hotshot¢enjoy your view of the battle."

 Belatedly, the light dawned. "He was listening in on our channel," Luke said. "You just 
wanted to decoy him into moving away from the mole miner."

 "You got it," Han said. "I figured he'd tap in¢Imperials always do when they can..."

 He trailed off. "What is it?" Luke asked.

 "I don't know," Han said slowly. "There's something about this whole thing that keeps 
poking at me, but I can't figure out what it is. Never mind. Our hotshot spacetrooper will 
keep for now¢let's go hit some more mole miners."

  

 It was just as well, Pellaeon thought, that they were only here to keep the enemy tied up. 
The Sluissi and their New Republic allies were putting up one terrific fight.

 On his status board, a section of theChimera 's shield schematic went red. "Get that 
starboard shield back up," he ordered, giving the sky in that direction a quick scan. There 
were half a dozen warships out there, all of them firing like mad, with a battle station in 
backstop position behind them. If their sensors showed that theChimera 's starboard 
shields were starting to go¢

 "Starboard turbolasers: focus all fire on the Assault Frigate at thirty-two mark forty," 
Thrawn spoke up calmly. "Concentrate on the starboard side of the ship only."

 TheChimaera gun crews responded with a withering hail of laser fire. The Assault 
Frigate tried to swerve away; but even as it turned, its entire starboard side seemed to 
flash with vaporized metal. The weapons from that section, which had been firing 
nonstop, went abruptly silent.

 "Excellent," Thrawn said. "Starboard tractor crews: lock on and bring it in close. Try to 
keep it between the damaged shields and the enemy. And be sure to keep its starboard 
side facing toward us; the port side may still have active weapons and a crew to use 
them."

 Clearly against its will, the Assault Frigate began to move inward. Pellaeon watched it 
for a moment, then returned his attention to the overall battle. He had no doubt the tractor 
crew would do the job right; they'd shown a remarkable increase in efficiency and 
competence lately. "TIE Squadron Four, keep after that B-wing group," he instructed. 
"Port ion cannon: keep up the pressure on that command center." He looked at Thrawn. 
"Any specific orders, Admiral?"

 Thrawn shook his head. "No, the battle seems to be progressing as planned." He turned 
his glowing eyes on Pellaeon. "What word from Cloak Leader?"

 Pellaeon checked the proper display. "The TIE fighters are still engaging the various 
escort ships," he reported. "Forty-three of the mole miners have successfully attached to 
target ships. Of those, thirty-nine are secure and making for the perimeter. Four are still 
encountering internal resistance, though they anticipate a quick victory."

 "And the other eight?"

 "They've been destroyed," Pellaeon told him. "Including two of those with a 
spacetrooper aboard. One of those spacetroopers is failing to respond to comm, 
presumably killed with his craft; the other is still functional. Cloak Leader has ordered 
him to join the attack on the escort ships."

 "Countermand that," Thrawn said. "I'm quite aware that stormtroopers have infinite 
confidence in themselves, but that sort of deep-space combat is not what spacetrooper 
suits were designed for. Have Cloak Leader detail a TIE fighter to bring him out. And 
also inform him that his wing is to begin pulling back to the perimeter."

 Pellaeon frowned. "You meannow, sir?"

 "Certainly, now." Thrawn nodded toward the viewport. "The first of our new ships will 
begin arriving within fifteen minutes. As soon as they're all with us, the task force will be 
withdrawing."

 "But..."

 "The Rebel forces within the perimeter are of no further concern to us, Captain," 
Thrawn said with quiet satisfaction. "The captured ships are on their way. With or 
without TIE fighter cover, there's nothing the Rebels can do to stop them."

  

 Han brought theFalcon as close as he could to the Frigate's engines without risking a 
backwash, feeling the slight multiple dips in ship's power as Luke repeatedly fired the 
quads. "Anything?" he asked as they came up around the other side.

 "Doesn't look like it," Luke said. "There's just too much armor over the coolant-feeder 
lines."

 Han glanced along the Frigate's course, fighting back the urge to swear. They were 
already uncomfortably close to the perimeter battle, and getting closer all the time. "This 
isn't getting us anywhere. There's got to besome way to take out a capital ship."

 "That's what other capital ships are for," Wedge put in. "But you're right¢this isn't 
working."

 Han pursed his lips. "Artoo?¢you still on line back there?" he called.

 The droid's beeping came faintly up the cockpit corridor. "Go through your schematics 
again," Han ordered. "See if you can find us another weak point."

 Artoo beeped again in acknowledgment. But it wasn't a very optimistic beep. "He's not 
going to find anything better, Han," Luke said, echoing Han's own private assessment. "I 
don't think we've got any choice left. I'm going to have to go topside and use my 
lightsaber on it."

 "That's crazy, and you know it," Han growled. "Without a proper pressure suit¢and with 
engine coolant spraying all over you if it works¢"

 "How about using one of the droids?" Wedge suggested.

 "Neither of them can do it," Luke told him. "Artoo hasn't got the manipulative ability, 
and I wouldn't trust Threepio with a weapon. Especially not with all the high-acceleration 
maneuvers we're making."

 "What we need is a remote manipulator arm," Han said. "Something that Luke could use 
inside while..."

 He broke off. In a flash of inspiration, there it was¢the thing that had been bothering 
him ever since they'd walked into this crazy battle. "Lando," he called into the 
intercom."Lando! Get up here."

 "I've got him strapped in," Luke reminded him.

 "Well, goun strap him and get him up here," Han snapped."Now."

 Luke didn't waste time with questions. "Right," he said.

 "What is it?" Wedge asked tensely.

 Han clenched his teeth. "We were there on Nkllon when the Imperials stole these mole 
miners from Lando," he told the other. "We had to reroute our communications through 
some jamming."

 "Okay. So?"

 "So why were they jamming us?" Han asked. "To keep us from calling for help? From 
who? They're not jamming ushere, you notice."

 "I give up," Wedge said, starting to sound a little testy. "Why?"

 "Because they had to. Because¢"

 "Because most of the mole miners on Nkllon were running on radio remote," came a 
tired voice from behind him.

 Han turned around, to see Lando easing his way carefully into the cockpit, clearly 
running at half speed but just as clearly determined to make it. Luke was right behind 
him, a steadying hand on his elbow. "You heard all that?" Han asked him.

 "Every part that mattered," Lando said, dropping into the copilot's seat. "I could kick 
myself for not seeing it long ago."

 "Me, too. You remember any of the command codes?"

 "Most of them," Lando said. "What do you need?"

 "We don't have time for anything fancy." Han nodded toward the Frigate, now lying 
below them. "The mole miners are still attached to the ships. Just start 'em all running."

 Lando looked at him in surprise. "Start themrunning ?" he echoed.

 "You got it," Han confirmed. "All of them are going to be near a bridge or control 
wing¢if they can burn through enough equipment and wiring, it should knock out the 
whole lot of them."

 Lando exhaled noisily, tilting his head sideways in a familiar gesture of reluctant 
acceptance. "You're the boss," he said, fingers moving over the comm keyboard. "I just 
hope you know what you're doing. Ready?"

 Han braced himself. "Do it."

 Lando keyed a final section of code... and beneath them, the Frigate twitched.

 Not a big twitch, not at first. But as the seconds passed, it became increasingly clear that 
something down there was wrong. The main engines flickered a few times and then died, 
amid short bursts from the auxiliaries. Its drive toward the perimeter fighting faltered, its 
etheric control surfaces kicking in and then out again, striving to change course in 
random directions. The big ship floundered almost to a halt.

 And suddenly, the side of the hull directly opposite the mole miner's position erupted in 
a brilliant burst of flame.

 "It's cut all the way through!" Lando gasped, his tone not sure whether to be proud or 
dismayed by his handiwork. A TIE fighter, perhaps answering a distress call from the 
stormtroopers inside, swept directly into the stream of superheated plasma before it could 
maneuver away. It emerged from the other side, its solar panels blazing with fire, and 
exploded.

 "It's working," Wedge called, sounding awed. "Look¢it's working."

 Han looked up from the Frigate. All around them¢all throughout the orbit-dock 
area¢ships that had been making for deep space were suddenly twisting around like 
metallic animals in the throes of death.

 All of them with tongues of flame shooting from their sides.

  

 For a long minute Thrawn sat in silence, staring down at his status boards, apparently 
oblivious to the battle still raging on all around them. Pellaeon held his breath, waiting 
for the inevitable explosion of injured pride at the unexpected reversal. Wondering what 
form that explosion would take.

 Abruptly, the Grand Admiral raised his eyes to the viewport. "Have all the remaining 
Cloak Force TIE fighters returned to our ships, Captain?" he asked calmly.

 "Yes, sir," Pellaeon told him, still waiting.

 Thrawn nodded. "Then order the task force to begin its withdrawal."

 "Ah... withdrawal?" Pellaeon asked cautiously. It was not exactly the order he'd been 
anticipating.

 Thrawn looked at him, a faint smile on his face. "You were expecting, perhaps, that I'd 
order an all-out attack?" he asked. "That I would seek to cover our defeat in a frenzy of 
false and futile heroics?"

 "Of course not," Pellaeon protested.

 But he knew down deep that the other knew the truth. Thrawn's smile remained, but was 
suddenly cold. "We haven't been defeated, Captain," he said quietly. "Merely slowed 
down a bit. We have Wayland, and we have the treasures of the Emperor's storehouse. 
Sluis Van was to be merely a preliminary to the campaign, not the campaign itself. As 
long as we have Mount Tantiss, our ultimate victory is still assured."

 He looked out the viewport, a thoughtful expression on his face. "We've lost this 
particular prize, Captain. But that's all we've lost. I will not waste ships and men trying to 
change that which cannot be changed. There will be many more opportunities to obtain 
the ships we need. Carry out your orders."

 "Yes, Admiral," Pellaeon said, turning back to his status board, a surge of relief washing 
through him. So there would not be an explosion, after all... and with a twinge of guilt, he 
realized that he should have known better from the start. Thrawn was not merely a 
soldier, like so many others Pellaeon had served with. He was, instead, a true warrior, 
with his eye set on the final goal and not on his own personal glory.

 Taking one last look out the viewport, Pellaeon issued the order to retreat. And 
wondered, once again, what the Battle of Endor would have been like if Thrawn had been 
in command.

  

 Chapter 32

 It took a while longer after the Imperial fleet pulled out for the battle to be officially 
over. But with the Star Destroyers gone, the outcome was never in doubt.

 The regular stormtroopers were the easiest. Most of them were dead already, killed 
when Lando's activation of the mole miners had ruptured the airseals of their stolen ships 
and left them open to vacuum, and the rest were taken without much trouble. The eight 
remaining spacetroopers, whose zero-gee suits had allowed them to keep fighting after 
their ships were disabled, were another story entirely. Ignoring all calls to surrender, they 
fanned out through the shipyards, clearly intent on causing as much damage as they could 
before the inevitable. Six were hunted down and destroyed; the other two eventually 
self-destructed, one managing to cripple a Corvette in the process.

 He left behind him a shipyard and orbit-dock facility in an uproar... and a great number 
of severely damaged major ships.

 "Not exactly what you'd call a resounding victory," Captain Afyon grunted, surveying 
what was left of theLarkhess 's bridge through a pressure bulkhead viewport as he 
gingerly adjusted a battle dressing that had been applied to his forehead. "Going to take a 
couple months' work just to rewire all the control circuits."

 "Would you rather the Imperials have gotten it whole?" Han demanded from behind 
him, trying to ignore his own mixed feelings about this whole thing. Yes, it had worked... 
but at what cost?

 "Not at all," Afyon replied calmly. "You did what you had to¢and I'd say that even if my 
own neck hadn't been on the line. I'm just saying what others will say: that destroying all 
these ships in order to save them was not exactly the optimal solution."

 Han threw a look at Luke. "You sound like Councilor Fey'lya," he accused Afyon.

 The other nodded. "Exactly."

 "Well, fortunately, Fey'lya's only one voice," Luke offered.

 "Yeah, but it's a loud one," Han said sourly.

 "And one that a lot of people are starting to listen to," Wedge added. "Including 
important military people."

 "He'll find some way to parlay this incident into his own political gain," Afyon rumbled. 
"You just watch him."

 Han's rejoinder was interrupted by a trilling from the wall intercom. Afyon stepped over 
and tapped the switch. "Afyon here," he said.

 "Sluis Control communications," a voice replied. "We have an incoming call from 
Coruscant for Captain Solo. Is he with you?"

 "Right here," Han called, stepping over to the speaker. "Go ahead."

 There was a slight pause; and then a familiar and sorely missed voice came on. "Han? 
It's Leia."

 "Leia!" Han said, feeling a delighted and probably slightly foolish-looking grin spread 
across his face. A second later, though¢ "Wait a minute. What are you doing back on 
Coruscant?"

 "I think I've taken care of our other problem," she said. Her voice, he noticed for the 
first time, sounded tense and more than a little ragged. "At least for the moment."

 Han threw a frown across the room at Luke. "Youthink ?"

 "Look, that's not important right now," she insisted. "What's important is that you get 
back here right away."

 Something cold and hard settled into Han's stomach. For Leia to be this upset... "What's 
wrong?"

 He heard her take a deep breath. "Admiral Ackbar has been arrested and removed from 
command. On charges of treason."

 The room abruptly filled with a brittle silence. Han looked in turn at Luke, at Afyon, at 
Wedge. But there didn't seem to be anything to say. "I'll be there as soon as I can," he 
told Leia. "Luke's here, too¢you want me to bring him?"

 "Yes, if he can manage it," she said. "Ackbar's going to need all the friends he can get."

 "Okay," Han said. "Call me in theFalcon if there's any more news. We're heading over 
there right now."

 "I'll see you soon. I love you, Han."

 "Me, too."

 He broke the connection, turned back to the others. "Well," he said, to no one in 
particular. "There goes the hammer. You coming, Luke?"

 Luke looked at Wedge. "Have your people had a chance to do anything with my X-wing 
yet?"

 "Not yet," Wedge said, shaking his head. "But it's just been officially bumped to the top 
of the priority list. We'll have it ready to fly in two hours. Even if I have to take the 
motivators out of my own ship to do it."

 Luke nodded and looked back at Han. "I'll fly into Coruscant on my own, then," he said. 
"Let me just come with you and get Artoo off theFalcon ."

 "Right. Come on."

 "Good luck," Afyon called softly after them.

 And yes, Han thought as they hurried down the corridor toward the hatchway where 
theFalcon was docked; the hammer was indeed coming down. If Fey'lya and his faction 
pushed too hard and too fast¢and knowing Fey'lya, he would almost certainly push too 
hard and too fast¢

 "We could be on the edge of a civil war here," Luke murmured his thought back at him.

 "Yeah, well, we're not going to let that happen," Han told him with confidence he didn't 
feel. "We haven't gone through a war and back just to watch some overambitious Bothan 
wreck it."

 "How are we going to stop him?"

 Han grimaced. "We'll think of something."

  

 To Be Continued...

  

  



ABC Amber LIT Converter 
http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html
ABC Amber LIT Converter 
http://www.processtext.com/abclit.html
