take you there."

 "Why not?"

 "Because we don't let strangers just flit in and out," Torve said patiently. "We don't have 
anything like the kind of massive, overbearing security Jabba had on Tatooine, for 
starters."

 "We're not exactly¢" Lando began.

 Han cut him off with a gesture. "All right, then," he said to Torve. "How are you going 
to get back there?"

 Torve opened his mouth, then closed it again. "I guess I'll have to figure out a way to get 
my ship out of impoundment, won't I?"

 "That'll take time," Han pointed out. "Besides which, you're known here. On the other 
hand, someone who showed up with the proper credentials could probably pry it loose 
before anyone knew what had happened."

 Torve cocked an eyebrow. "You, for instance?"

 Han shrugged. "I might be able to. After that thing at the LoBue I probably should lie 
low, too. But I'm sure I could set it up."

 "I'm sure," Torve said, heavily sardonic. "And the catch...?"

 "No catch," Han told him. "All I want in return is for you to let us give you a lift back to 
your base, and then have fifteen minutes to talk with Karrde."

 Torve gazed at him, his mouth tight. "I'll get in trouble if I do this. You know that."

 "We're not exactly random strangers," Lando reminded him. "Karrde met me once, and 
both Han and I kept major military secrets for the Alliance for years. We've got a good 
record of people being able to trust us."

 Torve looked at Lando. Looked again at Han. "I'll get in trouble," he repeated with a 
sigh. "But I guess I reallydo owe you. One condition, though: I do all the navigation on 
the way in, and set it up in a coded, erasable module. Whether you have to do the same 
thing on the way out will be up to Karrde."

 "Good enough," Han agreed. Paranoia was a common enough ailment among 
smugglers. Anyway, he had no particular interest in knowing where Karrde had set up 
shop. "When can we leave?"

 "As soon as you're ready." Torve nodded at the sabacc chips cupped in Han's hand. 
"Unless you want to go back to the LoBue and play those," he added.

 Han had forgotten he was still holding the chips. "Forget it," he growled, dropping the 
stack onto the holo board. "I try not to play sabacc when there are fanatics breathing 
down my neck."

 "Yes, the Reverend put on a good show, didn't he?" Torve agreed. "Don't know what we 
would have done without him."

 "Wait a minute," Lando put in. "Youknow him?"

 "Sure," Torve grinned. "He's my contact with the hill clan. He couldn't have made 
nearly so much fuss without a stranger like you there for him to pick on, though."

 "Why, that rotten¢" Han clamped his teeth together. "I suppose that washis skifter, 
huh?"

 "Sure was." Torve looked innocently at Han. "What are you complaining about? You 
got what you wanted¢I'm taking you to see Karrde. Right?"

 Han thought about it. Torve was right, of course. But still... "Right," he conceded. "So 
much for heroics, I guess."

 Torve snorted gently. "Tell me about it. Come on, let's get into your computer and start 
coding up a nav module."

  

 Chapter 21

 Mara stepped up to the comm room door, wondering uneasily what this sudden 
summons was all about. Karrde hadn't said, but there had been something in his voice 
that had set her old survival instincts tingling. Checking the tiny blaster hanging upside 
down in its sleeve sheath, she slapped at the door release.

 She'd expected to find at least two people already in the room: Karrde plus the comm 
room duty man plus whoever else had been called in on this. To her mild surprise, Karrde 
was alone. "Come in, Mara," he invited, looking up from his data pad. "Close the door 
behind you."

 She did so. "Trouble?" she asked.

 "A minor problem only," he assured her. "A bit of an awkward one, though. Fynn Torve 
just called to say he was on his way in... and he has guests. Former New Republic 
generals Lando Calrissian and Han Solo."

 Mara felt her stomach tighten. "What do they want?"

 Karrde shrugged fractionally. "Apparently, just to talk to me."

 For a second, Mara's thoughts flicked to Skywalker, still locked away in his barracks 
room across the compound. But, no¢there was no way anyone in the New Republic could 
possibly know he was here. Most of Karrde's own people didn't know it, including the 
majority of those right here on Myrkr. "Did they bring their own ship?" she asked.

 "Theirs is the only one coming in, actually," Karrde nodded. "Torve's riding with them."

 Mara's eyes flicked to the comm equipment behind him. "A hostage?"

 Karrde shook his head. "I don't think so. He gave all the proper all-clear passwords. 
TheEtherway 's still on Abregado¢been impounded by the local authorities or some such. 
Apparently, Calrissian and Solo helped Torve avoid a similar fate."

 "Then thank them, have them put Torve down, and tell them to get off the planet," she 
said. "You didn't invite them here."

 "True," Karrde agreed, watching her closely. "On the other hand, Torve seems to think 
he's under a certain obligation to them."

 "Then let him pay it back on his own time."

 The skin around Karrde's eyes seemed to harden. "Torve is one of my associates," he 
said, his voice cold. "His debts are the organization's. You should know that by now."

 Mara's throat tightened as a sudden, horrible thought occurred to her. "You're not going 
to give Skywalker to them, are you?" she demanded.

 "Alive, you mean?" Karrde countered.

 For a long moment Mara just stared at him; at that small smile and those slightly heavy 
eyelids and the rest of that carefully constructed expression of complete disinterest in the 
matter. But it was all an act, and she knew it. He wanted to know why she hated 
Skywalker, all right¢wanted it with as close to genuine passion as the man ever got.

 And as far as she was concerned, he could go right on wanting it. "I don't suppose it's 
occurred to you," she bit out, "that Solo and Calrissian might have engineered this whole 
thing, including theEtherway 's impoundment, as a way of finding this base."

 "It's occurred to me, yes," Karrde said. "I dismissed it as somewhat farfetched."

 "Of course," Mara said sardonically. "The great and noble Han Solo would never do 
something so devious, would he? You never answered my question."

 "About Skywalker? I thought I'd made it clear, Mara, that he stays here until I know 
why Grand Admiral Thrawn is so interested in acquiring him. At the very least, we need 
to know what he's worth, and to whom, before we can set a fair market price for him. I 
have some feelers out; with luck, we should know in a few more days."

 "And meanwhile, his allies will be here in a few more minutes."

 "Yes," Karrde agreed, his lips puckering slightly. "Skywalker will have to be moved 
somewhere a bit more out of the way¢we obviously can't risk Solo and Calrissian 
stumbling over him. I want you to move him to the number four storage shed."

 "That's where we're keeping that droid of his," Mara reminded him.

 "The shed's got two rooms; put him in the other one." Karrde waved toward her waist. 
"And do remember to lose that before our guests arrive. I doubt they'd fail to recognize 
it."

 Mara glanced down at Skywalker's lightsaber hanging from her belt. "Don't worry. If it's 
all the same to you, I'd just as soon not have much to do with them."

 "I wasn't planning for you to," Karrde assured her. "I'd like you here when I greet them, 
and possibly to join us for dinner, as well. Other than that, you're excused from all social 
activities."

 "So they're staying the day?"

 "And possibly the night, as well." He eyed her. "Requirements of a proper host aside, 
can you think of a better way for us to prove to the Republic, should the need arise, that 
Skywalker was never here?"

 It made sense. But that didn't mean she had to like it. "Are you warning the rest of 
theWild Karrde 's crew to keep quiet?"

 "I'm doing better than that," Karrde said, nodding back toward the comm equipment. 
"I've sent everyone who knows about Skywalker off to get theStarry Ice prepped. Which 
reminds me¢after you move Skywalker, I want you to run his X-wing farther back under 
the trees. No more than half a kilometer¢I don't want you to go through any more of the 
forest alone than you have to. Can you fly an X-wing?"

 "I can fly anything."

 "Good," he said, smiling slightly. "You'd better be off, then. TheMillennium Falcon will 
be landing in less than twenty minutes."

 Mara took a deep breath. "All right," she said. Turning, she left the room.

 The compound was empty as she walked across it to the barracks building. By Karrde's 
design, undoubtedly; he must have shifted people around to inside duties to give her a 
clear path for taking Skywalker to the storage shed. Reaching his room, she keyed off the 
lock and slid open the door.

 He was standing by the window, dressed in that same black tunic, pants, and high boots 
that he'd worn that day at Jabba's palace.

 That day she'd stood silently by and watched... and let him destroy her life.

 "Get your case and let's go," she growled, gesturing with the blaster. "It's moving day."

 His eyes stayed on her as he stepped over to the bed. Not on the blaster in her hand, but 
on her face. "Karrde's made a decision?" he asked calmly as he picked up the case.

 For a long moment she was tempted to tell him that, no, this was on her own initiative, 
just to see if the implications would crack that maddening Jedi serenity. But even a Jedi 
would probably fight if he thought he was going to his death, and they were on a tight 
enough schedule as it was. "You're moving to one of the storage sheds," she told him. 
"We've got company coming, and we don't have any formal wear your size. Come on, 
move."

 She walked him past the central building to the number four shed, a two-room structure 
tucked conveniently back out of the compound's major traffic patterns. The room on the 
left, normally used for sensitive or dangerous equipment, was also the only one of the 
storage areas with a lock, undoubtedly the reason Karrde had chosen it to serve the role 
of impromptu prison. Keeping one eye on Skywalker, she keyed open the lock, 
wondering as she did so whether Karrde had had time to disable the inside mechanism. A 
quick look as the door slid open showed that he hadn't.

 Well, that could easily be corrected. "In here," she ordered, flicking on the inside light 
and gesturing for him to enter.

 He complied. "Looks cozy," he said, glancing around the windowless room and the 
piled shipping boxes that took up perhaps half the floor space to the right. "Probably 
quiet, too."

 "Ideal for Jedi meditation," she countered, stepping over to an open box markedBlasting 
Disks and taking a look inside. No problem; it was being used for spare coveralls at the 
moment. She gave the rest of the box markings a quick check, confirmed that there was 
nothing here he could possibly use to escape. "We'll get a cot or something in for you 
later," she said, moving back to the door. "Food, too."

 "I'm all right for now."

 "Ask me if I care." The inner lock mechanism was behind a thin metal plate. Two shots 
from her blaster unsealed one end of the plate and curled it back; a third vaporized a 
selected group of wires. "Enjoy the quiet," she said, and left.

  

 The door closed behind her, and locked... and Luke was once again alone.

 He looked around him. Piled boxes, no windows, a single locked door. "I've been in 
worse places," he muttered under his breath. "At least there's no Rancor here."

 For a moment he frowned at the odd thought, wondering why the Rancor pit at Jabba's 
palace should suddenly have flashed to mind. But he only gave it a moment. The lack of 
proper preparation and facilities in his new prison strongly suggested that moving him 
here had been a spur-of-the-moment decision, possibly precipitated by the imminent 
arrival of whoever the visitors were Mara had mentioned.

 And if so, there was a good possibility that somewhere in the mad scramble they might 
finally have made a mistake.

 He went over to the door, easing the still-warm metal plate a little farther back and 
kneeling down to peer inside at the lock mechanism. Han had spent a few idle hours once 
trying to teach him the finer points of hot-wiring locks, and if Mara's shot hadn't damaged 
it too badly, there was a chance he might be able to persuade it to disengage.

 It didn't look promising. Whether by design or accident, Mara's shot had taken out the 
wires to the inside control's power supply, vaporizing them all the way back into the wall 
conduit, where there was no chance at all of getting hold of them.

 But if he could find another power supply...

 He got to his feet again, brushed off his knees, and headed over to the neatly piled 
boxes. Mara had glanced at their labels, but she'd actually looked inside only one of 
them. Perhaps a more complete search would turn up something useful.

 The search, unfortunately, took even less time than his examination of the ruined lock. 
Most of the boxes were sealed beyond his capability to open without tools, and the 
handful that weren't held such innocuous items as clothing or replacement equipment 
modules.

 All right, then,he told himself, sitting down on the edge of one of the boxes and looking 
around for inspiration.I can't use the door. There aren't any windows. But therewas 
another room in this shed¢he'd seen the other door while Mara was opening this one. 
Perhaps there was some kind of half-height doorway or crawl space between them, 
hidden out of sight behind the stacked boxes.

 It wasn't likely, of course, that Mara would have missed anything that obvious. But he 
had time, and nothing else to occupy it. Getting up from his seat, he began unstacking the 
boxes and moving them away from the wall.

 He'd barely begun when he found it. Not a doorway, but something almost as good: a 
multisocket power outlet, set into the wall just above the baseboard.

 Karrde and Mara had made their mistake.

 The metal doorplate, already stressed by the blaster fire Mara had used to peel it back, 
was relatively easy to bend. Luke kept at it, bending it back and forth, until a roughly 
triangular piece broke off in his hand. It was too soft to be of any use against the sealed 
equipment boxes, but it would probably be adequate for unscrewing the cover of a 
common power outlet.

 He returned to the outlet and lay down in the narrow gap between wall and boxes. He 
was just trying to wedge his makeshift screwdriver against the first screw when he heard 
a quiet beep.

 He froze, listening. The beep came again, followed by a series of equally soft warbles. 
Warbles that sounded very familiar... "Artoo?" he called softly. "Is that you?"

 For a pair of heartbeats there was silence from the other room. Then, abruptly, the wall 
erupted with a minor explosion of electronic jabbering. Artoo, without a doubt. "Steady, 
Artoo," Luke called back. "I'm going to try and get this power outlet open. There's 
probably one on your side, too¢can you get it open?"

 There was a distinctly disgusted-sounding gurgle. "No, huh? Well, just hang on, then."

 The broken metal triangle wasn't the easiest thing to work with, particularly in the 
cramped space available. Still, it took Luke only a couple of minutes to get the cover 
plate off and pull the wires out of his way. Hunching forward, he could see through the 
hole to the back of the outlet in Artoo's room. "I don't think I can get your outlet open 
from here," he called to the droid. "Is your room locked?"

 There was a negative beep, followed by an odd sort of whining, as if Artoo was spinning 
his wheels. "Restraining bolt?" Luke asked. The spinning/whine came again¢ "Or a 
restraint collar?"

 An affirmative beep, with frustrated overtones. It figured, in retrospect: a restraining 
bolt would leave a mark, whereas a collar snugged around Artoo's lower half would do 
nothing but let him wear out his wheels a little. "Never mind," Luke reassured him. "If 
there's enough wire in here to reach to the door, I should be able to unlock it. Then we 
can both get out of here."

 Carefully, mindful of the possibility of shock from the higher-current lines nearby, he 
found the low-voltage wire and started easing it gently toward him out of the conduit. 
There was more than he'd expected; he got nearly one and a half meters coiled on the 
floor by his head before it stopped coming.

 More than he'd expected, but far less than he needed. The door was a good four meters 
away in a straight line, and he would need some slack to get it spliced into the lock 
mechanism. "It's going to be a few more minutes," he called to Artoo, trying to think. The 
low-power line had a meter and a half of slack to it, which implied the other lines 
probably did, as well. If he could cut that much length off two of them, he should have 
more than enough to reach the lock.

 Which left only the problem of finding something to cut them with. And, of course, 
managing to not electrocute himself along the way.

 "What I wouldn't give to have my lightsaber back for a minute," he muttered, examining 
the edge of his makeshift screwdriver. It wasn't very sharp; but then, the superconducting 
wires weren't very thick, either.

 It was the work of a couple of minutes to pull the other wires as far out of the conduit as 
they would go. Standing up, he took off his tunic, wrapped one of the sleeves twice 
around the metal, and started sawing.

 He was halfway through the first of the wires when his hand slipped off the insulating 
sleeve and for a second touched the bare metal. Reflexively he jerked back, banging his 
hand against the wall.

 And then his brain caught up with him. "Uh-oh," he murmured, staring at the half-cut 
wire.

 There was an interrogative whistle from the other room. "I just touched one of the 
wires," he told the droid, "and I didn't get a shock."

 Artoo whistled. "Yeah," Luke agreed. He tapped at the wire... touched it again... held his 
finger against it.

 So Karrde and Mara hadn't made a mistake, after all. They'd already cut the power to the 
outlet.

 For a moment he knelt there, holding the wire, wondering what he was going to do now. 
He still had all this wire, but no power supply for it to connect with. Conversely, there 
were probably any number of small power sources in the room, attached to the stored 
replacement modules, but they were all packed away in boxes he couldn't get into. Could 
he somehow use the wire to get into the boxes? Use it to slice through the outer sealant 
layer, perhaps?

 He got a firm grip on the wire and pulled on it, trying to judge its tensile strength. His 
fingers slipped along the insulation; shifting his grip, he wrapped it firmly around his 
right hand¢

 And stopped, a sudden prickly feeling on the back of his neck. His right hand. His 
artificial right hand. His artificial, dual-power-supply right hand... "Artoo, you know 
anything about cybernetic limb replacements?" he called, levering the wrist access port 
open with his metal triangle.

 There was a short pause, then a cautious and ambiguous-sounding warble. "It shouldn't 
take too much," he reassured the droid, peering at the maze of wiring and servos inside 
his hand. He'd forgotten how incredibly complex the whole thing was. "All I need to do is 
get one of the power supplies out. Think you can walk me through the procedure?"

 The pause this time was shorter, and the reply more confident. "Good," Luke said. "Let's 
get to it."

  

 Chapter 22

 Han finished his presentation, sat back in his chair, and waited. "Interesting," Karrde 
said, that faintly amused, totally noncommittal expression of his hiding whatever it was 
he was really thinking.

 "Interesting, indeed. I presume the Provisional Council would be willing to record legal 
guarantees of all this."

 "We'll guarantee what we can," Han told him. "Your protection, legality of operation, 
and so forth. Naturally, we can't guarantee particular profit margins or anything like that."

 "Naturally," Karrde agreed, his gaze shifting to Lando. "You've been rather quiet, 
General Calrissian. How exactly do you fit into all of this?"

 "Just as a friend," Lando said. "Someone who knew how to get in touch with you. And 
someone who can vouch for Han's integrity and honesty."

 A slight smile touched Karrde's lips. "Integrity and honesty," he repeated. "Interesting 
words to use in regard to a man with Captain Solo's somewhat checkered reputation."

 Han grimaced, wondering which particular incident Karrde might be referring to. There 
were, he had to admit, a fair number to choose from. "Any checkering that existed is all 
in the past," he said.

 "Of course," Karrde agreed. "Your proposal is, as I said, very interesting. But not, I 
think, for my organization."

 "May I ask why not?" Han asked.

 "Very simply, because it would look to certain parties as if we were taking sides," 
Karrde explained, sipping from the cup at his side. "Given the extent of our operations, 
and the regions in which those operations take place, that might not be an especially 
politic thing to do."

 "I understand," Han nodded. "I'd like the chance to convince you that there are ways to 
keep your other clients from knowing about it."

 Karrde smiled again. "I think you underestimate the Empire's intelligence capabilities, 
Captain Solo," he said. "They know far more about Republic movements than you might 
think."

 "Tell me about it," Han grimaced, glancing at Lando. "That reminds me of something 
else I wanted to ask you. Lando said you might know a slicer who was good enough to 
crack diplomatic codes."

 Karrde cocked his head slightly to the side. "Interesting request," he commented. 
"Particularly coming from someone who should already have access to such codes. Is 
intrigue beginning to form among the New Republic hierarchy, perhaps?"

 That last conversation with Winter, and her veiled warnings, flashed through Han's 
mind. "This is purely personal," he assured Karrde. "Mostly personal, anyway."

 "Ah," the other said. "As it happens, one of the best slicers in the trade will be at dinner 
this afternoon. You'll join us, of course?"

 Han glanced at his watch in surprise. Between business and small talk, the 
fifteen-minute interview that Torve had promised him with Karrde had now stretched out 
into two hours. "We don't want to impose on your time¢"

 "It's no imposition at all," Karrde assured him, setting his cup down and standing. "With 
the press of business and all, we tend to miss the midday meal entirely and compensate 
by pushing the evening dinner up to late afternoon."

 "I remember those wonderful smuggler schedules," Han nodded wryly, memories 
flashing through his mind. "You're lucky to get even two meals."

 "Indeed," Karrde agreed. "If you'll follow me...?"

 The main building, Han had noted on the way in, seemed to be composed of three or 
four circular zones centering on the greatroom with the strange tree growing through it. 
The room Karrde took them to now was in the layer just outside the greatroom, taking 
perhaps a quarter of that circle. A number of round tables were set up, with several of 
them already occupied. "We don't stand on protocol regarding meals here," Karrde said, 
leading the way to a table in the center of the room. Four people were already sitting 
there: three men and a woman.

 Karrde steered them to three vacant seats. "Good evening, all," he nodded to the others 
at the table. "May I present Calrissian and Solo, who'll be dining with us tonight." He 
gestured to each of the men in turn. "Three of my associates: Wadewarn, Chin, and 
Ghent. Ghent is the slicer I mentioned; possibly the best in the business." He waved to 
the woman. "And of course you've already met Mara Jade."

 "Yes," Han agreed, nodding to her and sitting down, a small shiver running up his back. 
Mara had been with Karrde when he'd first welcomed them into that makeshift throne 
room of his. She hadn't stayed long; but for the whole of that brief time she'd glowered 
darkly at Lando and him with those incredible green eyes of hers.

 Almost exactly the same way she was glowering at them right now.

 "So you're Han Solo," the slicer, Ghent, said brightly. "I've heard a lot about you. 
Always wanted to meet you."

 Han shifted his attention away from Mara to Ghent. He wasn't much more than a kid, 
really, barely out of his teens. "It's nice to be famous," Han told him. "Just remember that 
whatever you've heard has been hearsay. And that hearsay stories grow an extra leg every 
time they're told."

 "You're too modest," Karrde said, signaling to the side. In response, a squat droid rolled 
toward them from around the room's curve, a tray of what looked like rolled leaves 
perched on top of it. "It would be difficult to embellish that Zygerrian slaver incident, for 
example."

 Lando looked up from the droid's tray. "Zygerrian slavers?" he echoed. "You never told 
me that one."

 "It wasn't anything important," Han said, warning Lando with a look to drop the subject.

 Unfortunately, Ghent either missed the look or was too young to know what it meant. 
"He and Chewbacca attacked a Zygerrian slaver ship," the kid explained eagerly. "Just 
the two of them. The Zygerrians were so scared they abandoned ship."

 "They were more pirates than slavers," Han said, giving up. "And they weren't afraid of 
me¢they abandoned ship because I told them I had twenty stormtroopers with me and 
was coming aboard to check their shipping licenses."

 Lando raised his eyebrows. "And theybought that?"

 Han shrugged. "I was broadcasting a borrowed Imperial ID at the time."

 "But then you know what he did?" Ghent put in. "He gave the ship over to the slaves 
they found locked up in the hold.Gave it to them¢just like that! Including all the cargo, 
too."

 "Why, you old softie," Lando grinned, taking a bite from one of the rolled leaves. "No 
wonder you never told me that one."

 With an effort, Han held onto his patience. "The cargo was pirate plunder," he growled. 
"Some of it extremely traceable. We were off Janodral Mizar¢they had a strange local 
law at the time that pirate or slaver victims got to split up the proceeds if the pirates were 
taken or killed."

 "That law's still in force, as far as I know," Karrde murmured.

 "Probably. Anyway, Chewie was with me... and you know Chewie's opinion of slavers."

 "Yeah," Lando said dryly. "They'd have had a better chance with the twenty 
stormtroopers."

 "And if I hadn't just given away the ship¢" Han broke off as a quiet beep sounded.

 "Excuse me," Karrde said, pulling a comlink from his belt. "¢Karrde here."

 Han couldn't hear what was being said... but abruptly Karrde's face seemed to tighten. 
"I'll be right there."

 He got to his feet and slipped the comlink back onto his belt. "Excuse me again," he 
said. "A small matter needs my attention."

 "Trouble?" Han asked.

 "I hope not." Karrde glanced across the table, and Han turned in time to see Mara stand 
up. "Hopefully, this will only take a few minutes. Please enjoy your meal."

 They left the table, and Han looked back at Lando. "I've got a bad feeling about this," he 
muttered.

 Lando nodded, his eyes still following Mara and Karrde, a strange expression on his 
face. "I've seen her before, Han," he murmured back. "I don't know where, but I know 
I've seen her and I don't think she was a smuggler at the time."

 Han looked around the table at the others, at the wariness in their eyes and the guarded 
murmuring back and forth between them. Even Ghent had noticed the sudden tension and 
