Star Destroyer just made orbit."

 Karrde glanced at Mara as he got to his feet. "Any make on it yet?" he asked, dropping 
his napkin beside his plate and stepping around the desk to where he could see the screen.

 "They're not exactly broadcasting ID sigs these days," Aves shook his head. "The 
lettering on the side is hard to read at this distance, but Torve's best guess is that it's 
theChimaera ."

 "Interesting," Karrde murmured. Grand Admiral Thrawn himself. "Have they made any 
transmissions?"

 "None that we've picked up¢wait a minute. Looks like... yes¢they're launching a shuttle. 
Make that two shuttles. Projected landing point..." Aves frowned at something offscreen 
for a moment. "Projected landing point somewhere here in the forest."

 Out of the corner of his eyes, Karrde saw Mara stiffen a bit. "Not in any of the cities 
around the edge?" he asked Aves.

 "No, it's definitely the forest. No more than fifty kilometers from here, either."

 Karrde rubbed his forefinger gently across his lower lip, considering the possibilities. 
"Still only two shuttles?"

 "That's all so far." Aves was starting to look a little nervous. "Should I call an alert?"

 "On the contrary. Let's see if they need any help. Give me a hailing channel."

 Aves opened his mouth; closed it again. "Okay," he said, taking a deep breath and 
tapping something offscreen. "You have hailing."

 "Thank you. Imperial Star DestroyerChimaera , this is Talon Karrde. May I be of any 
assistance to you?"

 "No response," Aves muttered. "You think maybe they didn't want to be noticed?"

 "If you don't want to be noticed, you don't use a Star Destroyer," Karrde pointed out. 
"No, they're most likely busy running my name through ship's records. Be interesting to 
see some day just what they have on me. If anything." He cleared his throat. "Star 
DestroyerChimaera , this is¢"

 Abruptly, Aves's face was replaced by that of a middle-aged man wearing a captain's 
insignia. "This is Captain Pellaeon of theChimaera ," he said brusquely. "What is it you 
want?"

 "Merely to be neighborly," Karrde told him evenly. "We track two of your shuttles 
coming down, and wondered if you or Grand Admiral Thrawn might require any 
assistance."

 The skin around Pellaeon's eyes tightened, just a bit. "Who?"

 "Ah," Karrde nodded, allowing a slight smile. "Of course. I haven't heard of Grand 
Admiral Thrawn, either. Certainly not in connection with theChimaera . Or with some 
intriguing information raids on several systems in the Paonnid/Obroa-skai region, either."

 The eyes tightened a little more. "You're very well informed, Mr. Karrde," Pellaeon 
said, his voice silky but with menace lurking beneath it. "One might wonder how a lowly 
smuggler would come by such information."

 Karrde shrugged. "My people hear stories and rumors; I take the pieces and put them 
together. Much the same way your own intelligence units operate, I imagine. Incidentally, 
if your shuttles are planning to put down in the forest, you need to warn the crews to be 
careful. There are several dangerous predator species living here, and the high metal 
content of the vegetation makes sensor readings unreliable at best."

 "Thank you for the advice," Pellaeon said, his voice still frosty. "But they won't be 
staying long."

 "Ah," Karrde nodded, running the possibilities through his mind. There were, 
fortunately, not all that many of them. "Doing a little hunting, are they?"

 Pellaeon favored him with a slightly indulgent smile. "Information on Imperial activities 
is very expensive. I'd have thought a man in your line of work would know that."

 "Indeed," Karrde agreed, watching the other closely. "But occasionally one finds 
bargains. It's the ysalamiri you're after, isn't it?"

 The other's smile froze. "There are no bargains to be had here, Karrde," he said after a 
moment, his voice very soft. "Andexpensive can also meancostly ."

 "True," Karrde said. "Unless, of course, it's traded for something equally valuable. I 
presume you're already familiar with the ysalamiri's rather unique 
characteristics¢otherwise, you wouldn't be here. Can I assume you're also familiar with 
the somewhat esoteric art of safely getting them off their tree branches?"

 Pellaeon studied him, suspicion all over his face. "I was under the impression that 
ysalamiri were no more than fifty centimeters long and not predatory."

 "I wasn't referring toyour safety, Captain," Karrde told him. I meant theirs. You can't 
just pull them off their branches, not without killing them. An ysalamir in this stage is 
sessile¢its claws have elongated to the point where they've essentially grown directly into 
the core of the branch it inhabits."

 "And you, I suppose, know the proper way to do it?"

 "Some of my people do, yes," Karrde told him. "If you'd like, I could send one of them 
to rendezvous with your shuttles. The technique involved isn't especially difficult, but it 
reallydoes have to be demonstrated."

 "Of course," Pellaeon said, heavily sardonic. "And the fee for this esoteric 
demonstration...?"

 "No fee, Captain. As I said earlier, we're just being neighborly."

 Pellaeon cocked his head slightly to one side. "Your generosity will be remembered." 
For a moment he held Karrde's gaze; and there was no mistaking the twin-edged meaning 
to the words. If Karrde was planning some sort of betrayal, it too would be remembered. 
"I'll signal my shuttles to expect your expert."

 "He'll be there. Good-bye, Captain."

 Pellaeon reached for something off-camera, and once again Ave's face replaced his on 
the screen. "You get all that?" Karrde asked the other.

 Aves nodded. "Dankin and Chin are already warming up one of the Skiprays."

 "Good. Have them leave an open transmission; and I'll want to see them as soon as 
they're back."

 "Right." The display clicked off.

 Karrde stepped away from the desk, glanced once at Mara, and reseated himself at the 
table. "Sorry for the interruption," he said conversationally, watching her out of the 
corner of his eye as he poured himself some more wine.

 Slowly, the green eyes came back from infinity; and as she looked at him, the muscles 
of her face eased from their deathlike rigidness. "You really not going to charge them for 
this?" she asked, reaching a slightly unsteady hand for her own wine. "They'd certainly 
makeyou pay if you wanted something. That's about all the Empire really cares about 
these days, money."

 He shrugged. "We get to have our people watching them from the moment they set 
down to the moment they lift off. That seems an adequate fee to me."

 She studied him. "You don't believe they're here just to pick up ysalamiri, do you?"

 "Not really." Karrde took a bite of his bruallki. "At least, not unless there's a use for the 
things that we don't know about. Coming all the way out here to collect ysalamiri is a bit 
of an overkill to use against a single Jedi."

 Mara's eyes again drifted away. "Maybe it's not Skywalker they're after," she murmured. 
"Maybe they've found some more Jedi."

 "Seems unlikely," Karrde said, watching her closely. The emotion in her voice when 
she'd said Luke Skywalker's name... "The Emperor supposedly made a clean sweep of 
them in the early days of the New Order. Unless," he added as another thought occurred 
to him, "they've perhaps found Darth Vader."

 "Vader died on the Death Star," Mara said. "Along with the Emperor."

 "That's the story, certainly¢"

 "He died there," Mara cut him off, her voice suddenly sharp.

 "Of course," Karrde nodded. It had taken him five months of close observation, but he'd 
finally pinned down the handful of subjects guaranteed to trigger strong responses from 
the woman. The late Emperor was among them, as was the pre-Endor Empire.

 And at the opposite end of the emotional spectrum was Luke Skywalker. "Still," he 
continued thoughtfully, "if a Grand Admiral thinks he has a good reason to carry 
ysalamiri aboard his ships, we might do well to follow his lead."

 Abruptly, Mara's eyes focused on him again. "What for?" she demanded.

 "A simple precaution," Karrde said. "Why so vehement?"

 He watched as she fought a brief internal battle. "It seems like a waste of time," she 
said. "Thrawn's probably just jumping at shadows. Anyway, how are you going to keep 
ysalamiri alive on a ship without transplanting some trees along with them?"

 "I'm sure Thrawn has some ideas as to the mechanics of it," Karrde assured her. "Dankin 
and Chin will know how to poke around for details."

 Her eyes seemed strangely hooded. "Yes," she muttered, her voice conceding defeat. 
"I'm sure they will."

 "And in the meantime," Karrde said, pretending not to notice, "we still have business to 
discuss. As I recall, you were going to list some improvements you would make in the 
organization."

 "Yes." Mara took another deep breath, closing her eyes... and when she opened them 
again she was back to her usual cool self. "Yes. Well¢"

 Slowly at first, but with ever-increasing confidence, she launched into a detailed and 
generally insightful compendium of his group's shortcomings. Karrde listened closely as 
he ate, wondering again at the hidden talents of this woman. Someday, he promised 
himself silently, he was going to find a way to dig the details of her past out from under 
the cloak of secrecy she'd so carefully shrouded it with. To find out where she'd come 
from, and who and what she was.

 And to learn exactly what it was Luke Skywalker had done to make her so desperately 
hate him.

  

 Chapter 4

 It took theChimaera nearly five days at its Point Four cruising speed to cover the three 
hundred fifty light-years between Myrkr and Wayland. But that was all right, because it 
took the engineers nearly that long to come up with a portable frame that would both 
support and nourish the ysalamiri.

 "I'm still not convinced this is really necessary," Pellaeon grumbled, eyeing with distaste 
the thick curved pipe and the furscaled, salamanderlike creature attached to it. The pipe 
and its attached frame were blasted heavy, and the creature itself didn't smell all that 
good. "If this Guardian you're expecting was put on Wayland by the Emperor in the first 
place, then I don't see why we should have any problems with him."

 "Call it a precaution, Captain," Thrawn said, settling into the shuttle's copilot seat and 
fastening his own straps. "It's conceivable we could have trouble convincing him of who 
we are. Or even that we still serve the Empire." He sent a casual glance across the 
displays and nodded to the pilot. "Go."

 There was a muffledclank , and with a slight jolt the shuttle dropped from theChimera 's 
docking bay and started its descent toward the planet surface. "We might have had an 
easier time convincing him with a squad of stormtroopers along," Pellaeon muttered, 
watching the repeater display beside his seat.

 "We might also have irritated him," Thrawn pointed out. A Dark Jedi's pride and 
sensibilities are not to be taken lightly, Captain. Besides¢" he looked over his shoulder 
"¢that's what Rukh is for. Any close associate of the Emperor ought to be familiar with 
the glorious role the Noghri have played over the years."

 Pellaeon glanced at the silent nightmare figure seated across the aisle. "You seem 
certain, sir, that the Guardian will be a Dark Jedi."

 "Who else would the Emperor have chosen to protect his personal storehouse?" Thrawn 
countered. "A legion of stormtroopers, perhaps, equipped with AT-ATs and the kind of 
advanced weaponry and technology you could detect from orbit with your eyes closed?"

 Pellaeon grimaced. That, at least, was something they wouldn't have to worry about. 
TheChimera 's scanners had picked up nothing beyond bow-and-arrow stage anywhere 
on Wayland's surface. It wasn't all that much comfort. "I'm just wondering whether the 
Emperor might have pulled him off Wayland to help against the Rebellion."

 Thrawn shrugged. "We'll know soon enough."

 The gentle roar of atmospheric friction against the shuttle's hull was growing louder 
now, and on Pellaeon's repeater display details of the planet's surface were becoming 
visible. Much of the area directly beneath them appeared to be forest, spotted here and 
there with large, grassy plains. Ahead, occasionally visible through the haze of clouds, a 
single mountain rose above the landscape. "Is thatMountTantiss ?" he asked the pilot.

 "Yes, sir," the other confirmed. "The city ought to be visible soon."

 "Right." Reaching surreptitiously to his right thigh, Pellaeon adjusted his blaster in its 
holster. Thrawn could be as confident as he liked, both in the ysalamiri and in his own 
logic. For his part, Pellaeon still wished they had more firepower.

 The city nestled against the southwestern base ofMountTantiss was larger than it had 
looked from orbit, with many of its squat buildings extending deep under the cover of the 
surrounding trees. Thrawn had the pilot circle the area twice, and then put down in the 
center of what appeared to be the main city square, facing a large and impressively 
regal-looking building.

 "Interesting," Thrawn commented, looking out the viewports as he settled his ysalamir 
backpack onto his shoulders. "There are at least three styles of architecture out 
there¢human plus two different alien species. It's not often you see such diversity in the 
same planetary region, let alone side by side in the same city. In fact, that palace thing in 
front of us has itself incorporated elements from all three styles."

 "Yes," Pellaeon agreed absently, peering out the viewports himself. At the moment, the 
buildings were of far less interest to him than the people the life-form sensors said were 
hiding behind and inside them. "Any idea whether those alien species are hostile toward 
strangers?"

 "Probably," Thrawn said, stepping to the shuttle's exit ramp, where Rukh was already 
waiting. "Most alien species are. Shall we go?"

 The ramp lowered with a hiss of released gases. Gritting his teeth, Pellaeon joined the 
other two. With Rukh in the lead, they headed down.

 No one shot at them as they reached the ground and took a few steps away from the 
shuttle. Nor did anyone scream, call out, or make any appearance at all. "Shy, aren't 
they?" Pellaeon murmured, keeping his hand on his blaster as he looked around.

 "Understandably," Thrawn said, pulling a megaphone disk from his belt. "Let's see if we 
can persuade them to be hospitable."

 Cupping the disk in his hand, he raised it to his lips. "I seek the Guardian of the 
mountain," his voice boomed across the square, the last syllable echoing from the 
surrounding buildings. "Who will take me to him?"

 The last echo died away into silence. Thrawn lowered the disk and waited; but the 
seconds ticked by without any response. "Maybe they don't understand Basic," Pellaeon 
suggested doubtfully.

 "No, they understand," Thrawn said coldly. "The humans do, at any rate. Perhaps they 
need more motivation." He raised the megaphone again. "I seek the Guardian of the 
mountain," he repeated. "If no one will take me to him, this entire city will suffer."

 The words were barely out of his mouth when, without warning, an arrow flashed 
toward them from the right. It struck Thrawn in the side, barely missing the ysalamir tube 
wrapped around his shoulders and back, and bounced harmlessly off the body armor 
hidden beneath the white uniform. "Hold," Thrawn ordered as Rukh leaped to his side, 
blaster at the ready. "You have the location?"

 "Yes," the Noghri grated, his blaster pointed at a squat two-story structure a quarter of 
the way around the square from the palace.

 "Good." Thrawn raised the megaphone again. "One of your people just shot at us. 
Observe the consequences." Lowering the disk again, he nodded to Rukh. "Now."

 And with a tight grin of his needle teeth, Rukh proceeded¢quickly, carefully, and 
scientifically¢to demolish the building.

 He took out the windows and doors first, putting perhaps a dozen shots through them to 
discourage any further attack. Then he switched to the lower-floor walls. By the twentieth 
shot, the building was visibly trembling on its foundations. A handful of shots into the 
upper-floor walls, a few more into the lower¢

 And with a thunderous crash, the building collapsed in on itself.

 Thrawn waited until the sound of crunching masonry had died away before raising the 
megaphone again. "Those are the consequences of defying me," he called. "I ask once 
more: who will take me to the Guardian of the mountain?"

 "I will," a voice said from their left.

 Pellaeon spun around. The man standing in front of the palace building was tall and 
thin, with unkempt gray hair and a beard that reached almost to the middle of his chest. 
He was dressed in shin-laced sandals and an old brown robe, with a glittering medallion 
of some sort half hidden behind the beard. His face was dark and lined and regal to the 
point of arrogance as he studied them, his eyes holding a mixture of curiosity and disdain. 
"You are strangers," he said, the same mixture in his voice. "Strangers¢" he glanced up at 
the shuttle towering over them "¢from offworld."

 "Yes, we are," Thrawn acknowledged. "And you?"

 The old man's eyes flicked to the smoking rubble Rukh had just created. "You destroyed 
one of my buildings," he said. "There was no need for that."

 "We were attacked," Thrawn told him coolly. "Were you its landlord?"

 The stranger's eyes might have flashed; at the distance, Pellaeon couldn't say for certain. 
"I rule," he said, his voice quiet hut with menace beneath it. "All that is here is mine."

 For a handful of heartbeats he and Thrawn locked eyes. Thrawn broke the silence first. 
"I am Grand Admiral Thrawn, Warlord of the Empire, servant of the Emperor. I seek the 
Guardian of the mountain."

 The old man bowed his head slightly. "I will take you to him."

 Turning, he started back toward the palace. "Stay close together," Thrawn murmured to 
the others as he moved to follow. "Be alert for a trap."

 No more arrows came as they crossed the square and walked under the carved keystone 
archway framing the palace's double doors. "I would have thought the Guardian would be 
living in the mountain," Thrawn said as their guide pulled open the doors. They came 
easily; the old man, Pellaeon decided, must be stronger than he looked.

 "He did, once," the other said over his shoulder. "When I began my rule, the people of 
Wayland built this for him." He crossed to the center of the ornate foyer room, halfway to 
another set of double doors, and stopped. "Leave us," he called.

 For a split second Pellaeon thought the old man was talking to him. He was just opening 
his mouth to refuse when two flanking sections of wall swung open and a pair of scrawny 
men stepped out of hidden guard niches. Glowering silently at the Imperials, they 
shouldered their crossbows and left the building. The old man waited until they were 
gone, then continued on to the second set of double doors. "Come," he said, gesturing to 
the doors, an odd glitter in his eyes. "The Emperor's Guardian awaits you."

 Silently, the doors swung open, revealing the light of what looked to be several hundred 
candles filling a huge room. Pellaeon glanced once at the old man standing beside the 
doors, a sudden premonition of dread sending a shiver up his back. Taking a deep breath, 
he followed Thrawn and Rukh inside.

 Into a crypt.

 There was no doubt as to what it was. Aside from the flickering candles, there was 
nothing else in the room but a large rectangular block of dark stone in the center.

 "I see," Thrawn said quietly. "So he is dead."

 "He is dead," the old man confirmed from behind them. "Do you see all the candles, 
Grand Admiral Thrawn?"

 "I see them," Thrawn nodded. "The people must have honored him greatly."

 "Honored him?" The old man snorted gently. "Hardly. Those candles mark the graves of 
offworlders who have come here since his death."

 Pellaeon twisted to face him, instinctively drawing his blaster as he did so. Thrawn 
waited another few heartbeats before slowly turning around himself. "How did they die?" 
he asked.

 The old man smiled faintly. "I killed them, of course. Just as I killed the Guardian." He 
raised his empty hands in front of him, palms upward. "Just as I now kill you."

 Without warning, blue lightning bolts flashed from his fingertips¢

 And vanished without a trace a meter away from each of them.

 It all happened so fast that Pellaeon had no chance to even flinch, let alone fire. Now, 
belatedly, he raised his blaster, the scalding hot air from the bolts washing over his hand¢

 "Hold," Thrawn said calmly into the silence. "However, as you can see, Guardian, we 
are not ordinary offworlders."

 "The Guardian is dead!" the old man snapped, the last word almost swallowed up by the 
crackle of more lightning. Again, the bolts vanished into nothingness before even coming 
close.

 "Yes, the old Guardian is dead," Thrawn agreed, shouting to be heard over the crackling 
thunder. "You are the Guardian now. It is you who protects the Emperor's mountain."

 "I serve no Emperor!" the old man retorted, unleashing a third useless salvo. "My power 
is for myself alone."

 As suddenly as it had started, the attack ceased. The old man stared at Thrawn, his 
hands still raised, a puzzled and oddly petulant expression on his face. "You are not Jedi. 
How do you do this?"

 "Join us and learn," Thrawn suggested.

 The other drew himself up to his full height. "I am a Jedi Master," he ground out. "I join 
no one."

 "I see," Thrawn nodded. "In that case, permitus to joinyou ." His glowing red eyes bored 
into the old man's face. "And permit us to show you how you can have more power than 
you've ever imagined. All the power even a Jedi Master could desire."

 For a long moment the old man continued to stare at Thrawn, a dozen strange 
expressions flicking in quick succession across his face. "Very well," he said at last. 
"Come. We will talk."

 "Thank you," Thrawn said, inclining his head slightly. "May I ask who we have the 
honor of addressing?"

 "Of course." The old man's face was abruptly regal again, and when he spoke his voice 
rang out in the silence of the crypt. "I am the Jedi Master Joruus C'baoth."

 Pellaeon inhaled sharply, a cold shiver running up his back. "Jorus C'baoth?" he 
breathed. "But¢"

 He broke off. C'baoth looked at him, much as Pellaeon himself might look at a junior 
officer who has spoken out of turn. "Come," he repeated, turning back to Thrawn. "We 
will talk."

 He led the way out of the crypt and back into the sunshine. Several small knots of 
people had gathered in the square in their absence, huddling well back from both the 
crypt and the shuttle as they whispered nervously together.

 With one exception. Standing directly in their path a few meters away was one of the 
two guards C'baoth had ordered out of the crypt. On his face was an expression of barely 
controlled fury; in his hands, cocked and ready, was his crossbow. "You destroyed his 
home," C'baoth said, almost conversationally. "Doubtless he would like to exact 
vengeance."

 The words were barely out of his mouth when the guard suddenly snapped the crossbow 
up and fired. Instinctively, Pellaeon ducked, raising his blaster¢

 And three meters from the Imperials the bolt came to an abrupt halt in midair.

 Pellaeon stared at the hovering piece of wood and metal, his brain only slowly catching 
up with what had just happened. "They are our guests," C'baoth told the guard in a voice 
clearly intended to reach everyone in the square. "They will be treated accordingly."

 With a crackle of splintering wood, the crossbow bolt shattered, the pieces dropping to 
the ground. Slowly, reluctantly, the guard lowered his crossbow, his eyes still burning 
with a now impotent rage. Thrawn let him stand there another second like that, then 
gestured to Rukh. The Noghri raised his blaster and fired¢

 And in a blur of motion almost too fast to see, a flat stone detached itself from the 
ground and hurled itself directly into the path of the shot, shattering spectacularly as the 
blast hit it.

 Thrawn spun to face C'baoth, his face a mirror of surprise and anger. "C'baoth¢!"

 "These aremy people, Grand Admiral Thrawn," the other cut him off, his voice forged 
from quiet steel. "Not yours; mine. If there is punishment to be dealt out,I will do it."

 For a long moment the two men again locked eyes. Then, with an obvious effort, 
Thrawn regained his composure. "Of course, Master C'baoth," he said. "Forgive me."

 C'baoth nodded. "Better. Much better." He looked past Thrawn, dismissed the guard 
with a nod. "Come," he said, looking back at the Grand Admiral. "We will talk."

  

 "You will now tell me," C'baoth said, gesturing them to low cushions, "how it was you 
defeated my attack."

 "Let me first explain our offer," Thrawn said, throwing a casual glance around the room 
before easing carefully down on one of the cushions. Probably, Pellaeon thought, the 
Grand Admiral was examining the bits of artwork scattered around. "I believe you'll find 
it¢"

 "You will now tell me how it was you defeated my attack," C'baoth repeated.

 A slight grimace, quickly suppressed, touched Thrawn's lips. "It's quite simple, 
actually." He looked up at the ysalamir wrapped around his shoulders, reaching a finger 
over to gently stroke its long neck. "These creatures you see on our backs are called 
ysalamiri. They're sessile tree-dwelling creatures from a distant, third-rate planet, and 
they have an interesting and possibly unique ability¢they push back the Force."

 C'baoth frowned. "What do you mean, push it back?"

 "They push its presence out away from themselves," Thrawn explained. "Much the same 
way a bubble is created by air pushing outward against water. A single ysalamir can 
occasionally create a bubble as large as ten meters across; a whole group of them 
reinforcing one another can create much larger ones."

 "I've never heard of such a thing," C'baoth said, staring at Thrawn's ysalamir with an 
almost childlike intensity. "How could such a creature have come about?"

 "I really don't know," Thrawn conceded. "I assume the talent has some survival value, 
but what that would be I can't imagine." He cocked an eyebrow. "Not that it matters. For 
the moment, the ability itself is sufficient for my purpose."

 C'baoth's face darkened. "That purpose being to defeat my power?"

 Thrawn shrugged. "We were expecting to find the Emperor's Guardian here. I needed to 
make certain he would allow us to identify ourselves and explain our mission." He 
reached up again to stroke the ysalamir's neck. "Though as it happens, protecting us from 
the Guardian was really only an extra bonus. I have something far more interesting in 
mind for our little pets."

 "That being...?"

 Thrawn smiled. "All in good time, Master C'baoth.And only after we've had a chance to 
examine the Emperor's storehouse inMountTantiss ."

 C'baoth's lip twisted. "So the mountain is all you really want."

 "I need the mountain, certainly," Thrawn acknowledged. "Or rather, what I hope to find 
within it."

 "And that is...?"

 Thrawn studied him for a moment. "There were rumors, just before the Battle of Endor, 
that the Emperor's researchers had finally developed a genuinely practical cloaking 
shield. I want it. Also," he added, almost as an afterthought, "another small¢almost 
trivial¢bit of technology."

 "And you think to find one of these cloaking shields in the mountain?"

 "I expect to find either a working model or at least a complete set of schematics," 
Thrawn said. "One of the Emperor's purposes in setting up this storehouse was to make 
sure that interesting and potentially useful technology didn't get lost."

 "That, and collecting endless mementos of his glorious conquests." C'baoth snorted. 
"There are rooms and rooms of that sort of cackling self-congratulation."

 Pellaeon sat up a bit straighter. "You've been inside the mountain?" he asked. Somehow, 
he'd expected the storehouse to be sealed with all sorts of locks and barriers.

 C'baoth sent him a scornfully patient look. "Of course I've been inside. I killed the 
Guardian, remember?" He looked back at Thrawn. "So. You want the Emperor's little 
