
 "Luke, are you all right?" Leia asked anxiously.

 "Sure," he said. His voice sounded better this time. "I'm fine. What's wrong?"

 "You'rewhat's wrong," Han cut in. "You planning to chase them all the way home?"

 Luke blinked, looking around in surprise. The buzzing TIE fighters were gone, leaving 
nothing but bits of wreckage strewn across the landscape. On his scope, he could see that 
the Star Destroyer had left Nkllon's shadow again, driving hard away from the planet 
toward a point far enough out of the gravity well for a lightspeed jump. Beyond it, a pair 
of miniature suns were approaching: two of Lando's shieldships, belatedly arriving¢now 
that it was too late¢to assist in the fight. "It's all over?" he asked stupidly.

 "It's all over," Leia assured him. "We got two of the TIE fighters before the rest 
disengaged and retreated."

 "What about the troop carriers?"

 "They went back with the fighters," Han said. "We still don't know what they were 
doing here¢we sort of lost track of them during the fight. Didn't look like they ever went 
very close to the city itself, though."

 Luke took a deep breath, glanced at the X-wing's chrono. In and among all of that, he'd 
somehow lost over half an hour. Half an hour that his internal time sense had no 
recollection of whatsoever. Could that strange Jedi contact really have lasted that long?

 It was something he would have to look into. Very carefully.

  

 On the main bridge screen, showing as little more than a bright spot against Nkllon's 
dark backdrop, theJudicator made its jump to lightspeed. "They're clear, Admiral," 
Pellaeon announced, looking over at Thrawn.

 "Good." The Grand Admiral gave the other displays an almost lazy examination, though 
there was little to worry about this far out in the Athega system. "So," he said, swiveling 
his chair around. "Master C'baoth?"

 "They fulfilled their mission," C'baoth said, that strangely taut expression on his face 
again. "They obtained fifty-one of the mole miner machines you sent them for."

 "Fifty-one," Thrawn repeated with obvious satisfaction. "Excellent. You had no problem 
guiding them in and out?"

 C'baoth focused his eyes on Thrawn. "They fulfilled their mission," he repeated. "How 
many times do you intend to ask me the same question?"

 "Until I'm sure I have the correct answer," Thrawn replied coolly. "For a while there 
your face looked as if you were having trouble."

 "I had no trouble, Grand Admiral Thrawn," C'baoth said loftily. "What I had was 
conversation." He paused, a slight smile on his face. "With Luke Skywalker."

 "What are you talking about?" Pellaeon snorted. "Current intelligence reports indicate 
that Skywalker is¢"

 He broke off at a gesture from Thrawn. "Explain," the Grand Admiral said.

 C'baoth nodded toward the display. "He's there right now, Grand Admiral Thrawn. He 
arrived on Nkllon just ahead of theJudicator ."

 Thrawn's glowing red eyes narrowed. "Skywalker is on Nkllon?" he asked, his voice 
dangerously quiet.

 "In the very center of the battle," C'baoth told him, very clearly enjoying the Grand 
Admiral's discomfiture.

 "And you said nothing to me?" Thrawn demanded in that same deadly voice.

 C'baoth's smile vanished. "I told you before, Grand Admiral Thrawn: you will leave 
Skywalker alone.I will deal with him¢in my own time, in my own way. All I require of 
you is the fulfillment of your promise to take me to Jomark."

 For a long moment Thrawn gazed at the Jedi Master, his eyes glowing red slits, his face 
hard and totally unreadable. Pellaeon held his breath... "It's too soon," the Grand Admiral 
said at last.

 C'baoth snorted. "Why? Because you find my talents too useful to give up?"

 "Not at all," Thrawn said, his voice icy. "It's a simple matter of efficiency. The rumors 
of your presence haven't had enough time to spread. Until we can be sure Skywalker will 
respond, you'll just be wasting your time there."

 A strangely dreamy look seeped onto C'baoth's face. "Oh, he'll respond," he said softly. 
"Trust me, Grand Admiral Thrawn. Hewill respond."

 "I always trust you," Thrawn said sardonically. He reached a hand up to stroke the 
ysalamir draped over his command chair, as if to remind the Jedi Master just how far he 
trusted him. "At any rate, I suppose it's your own time to waste. Captain Pellaeon, how 
long will it take to repair the damage to theJudicator ?"

 "Several days at the least, Admiral," Pellaeon told him. "Depending on the damage, it 
could take as long as three or four weeks."

 "All right. We'll go to the rendezvous point, stay with them long enough to make sure 
repairs are properly underway, and then take Master C'baoth to Jomark. I trust that will 
be satisfactory?" he added, looking back at C'baoth.

 "Yes." Carefully, C'baoth unfolded himself from his chair and stood up. "I will rest now, 
Grand Admiral Thrawn. Alert me if you need my assistance."

 "Certainly."

 Thrawn watched the other wend his way back across the bridge; and as the doors slid 
solidly shut behind him, the Grand Admiral turned to Pellaeon. Pellaeon braced himself, 
trying not to wince. "I want a course projection, Captain," Thrawn said, his voice cold but 
steady. "The most direct line from Nkllon to Jomark, at the best speed a 
hyperdrive-equipped X-wing could take it."

 "Yes, Admiral." Pellaeon signaled to the navigator, who nodded and got busy. "You 
think he's right about Skywalker going there?"

 Thrawn shrugged fractionally. "The Jedi had ways of influencing people, Captain, even 
over considerable distances. It's possible that even out here he was close enough to 
Skywalker to plant a suggestion or compulsion. Whether those techniques will work on 
another Jedi¢" He shrugged again. "We'll see."

 "Yes, sir." The numbers were starting to track across Pellaeon's display now. "Well, 
even if Skywalker leaves Nkllon immediately, there won't be any problem getting 
C'baoth to Jomark ahead of him."

 "I knew that much already, Captain," Thrawn said. "What I need is a bit more 
challenging. We're going to drop C'baoth off on Jomark, then backtrack to a point on 
Skywalker's projected course. A point at least twenty light-years away, I think."

 Pellaeon frowned at him. The expression on Thrawn's face made the back of his neck 
tingle... "I don't understand, sir," he said carefully.

 The glowing eyes regarded him thoughtfully. "It's quite simple, Captain. I mean to 
disabuse our great and glorious Jedi Master of his growing belief that he's indispensable 
to us."

 Pellaeon got it then. "So we wait along Skywalker's projected approach to Jomark and 
ambush him?"

 "Precisely," Thrawn nodded. "At which point we decide whether to capture him for 
C'baoth¢" his eyes hardened "¢or simply kill him."

 Pellaeon stared at him, feeling his jaw drop. "You promised C'baoth he could have 
him."

 "I'm reconsidering the deal," Thrawn told him coolly. "Skywalker has proved himself to 
be highly dangerous, and by all accounts has already withstood at least one attempt to 
turn him. C'baoth should have more success bending Skywalker's sister and her twins to 
his will."

 Pellaeon glanced behind him at the closed doors, reminding himself firmly that there 
was no way for C'baoth to eavesdrop on their conversation with all the ysalamiri 
scattered around theChimera 's bridge. "Perhaps he's looking forward to the challenge, 
sir," he suggested cautiously.

 "There will be many challenges for him to face before the Empire is reestablished. Let 
him save his talents and cunning for those." Thrawn turned back to his monitors. "At any 
rate, he'll likely forget all about Skywalker once he has the sister. I expect our Jedi 
Master's wants and desires will prove to be as erratic as his moods."

 Pellaeon thought back. On the matter of Skywalker, at least, C'baoth's desire seemed to 
have remained remarkably steady. "I respectfully suggest, Admiral, that we still make 
every possible effort to take Skywalker alive." He had a flash of inspiration¢ "Particularly 
since his death might induce C'baoth to leave Jomark and return to Wayland."

 Thrawn looked back at him, glowing eyes narrowed. "Interesting point, Captain," he 
murmured softly. "Interesting point, indeed. You're right, of course. By all means, we 
must keep him off Wayland. At least until the work on the Spaarti cylinders is finished 
and we have all the ysalamiri there we're going to need." He smiled tightly. "His reaction 
to what we're doing there might not be at all pleasant."

 "Agreed, sir," Pellaeon said.

 Thrawn's lip twitched. "Very well, Captain: I accede to your suggestion." He 
straightened himself in his seat. "It's time to be going. Prepare theChimaera for 
lightspeed."

 Pellaeon turned back to his displays. "Yes, sir. Direct route to the rendezvous point?"

 "We'll be making a short detour first. I want you to swing us around the system to the 
commercial out-vector near the shieldship depot and drop some probes to watch for 
Skywalker's departure. Near-system and farther out." He looked out the viewport in 
Nkllon's direction. "And who knows? Where Skywalker goes, theMillennium Falcon 
often goes, as well."

 "And then we'll have them all."

  

 Chapter 14

 "Fifty-one," Lando Calrissian growled, throwing a glare at Han and Leia as he paced a 
convoluted path around the low chairs in the lounge. "Fifty-one of my best reconditioned 
mole miners.Fifty-one. That's almost half my work force. You realize that?¢half my work 
force."

 He dropped down into a chair, but was on his feet again almost immediately, stalking 
around the room, his black cloak billowing behind him like a tame storm cloud. Leia 
opened her mouth to offer commiseration, felt Han squeeze her hand warningly. 
Obviously, Han had seen Lando in this state before. Swallowing back the words, she 
watched as he continued his caged-animal pacing.

 And without obvious warning, it was over. "I'm sorry," he said abruptly, coming to a 
halt in front of Leia and taking her hand. "I'm neglecting my duties as host, aren't I? 
Welcome to Nkllon." He raised her hand, kissed it, and waved his free hand toward the 
lounge window. "So. What do you think of my little enterprise?"

 "Impressive," Leia said, and meant it. "How did you ever come up with the idea for this 
place?"

 "Oh, it's been kicking around for years," he shrugged, pulling her gently to her feet and 
guiding her over to the window, his hand resting against the small of her back. Ever since 
she and Han had gotten married, Leia had noticed a resurgence of this kind of courtly 
behavior toward her from Lando¢behavior that harkened back to their first meeting at 
Cloud City. She'd puzzled over that for a while, until she'd noticed that all the attention 
seemed to annoy Han.

 Or, at least, it normally annoyed him. Right now, he didn't even seem to notice.

 "I found plans for something similar once in the Cloud City files, dating back to when 
Lord Ecclessis Figg first built the place," Lando continued, waving a hand toward the 
window. The horizon rolled gently as the city walked, the motion and view reminding 
Leia of her handful of experiences aboard sailing ships. "Most of the metal they used 
came from the hot inner planet, Miser, and even with Ugnaughts doing the mining they 
had a devil of a time with it. Figg sketched out an idea for a rolling mining center that 
could stay permanently out of direct sunlight on Miser's dark side. But nothing ever came 
of it."

 "It wasn't practical," Han said, coming up behind Leia. "Miser's terrain was too rough 
for something on wheels to get across easily."

 Lando looked at him in surprise. "How do you know about that?"

 Han shook his head distractedly, his eyes searching the landscape and the starry sky 
above it. "I spent an afternoon going through the Imperial files once, back when you were 
trying to talk Mon Mothma into helping fund this place. Wanted to make sure someone 
else hadn't already tried it and found out it didn't work."

 "Nice of you to go to that kind of trouble." Lando cocked an eyebrow. "So, what's going 
on?"

 "We should probably wait until Luke gets here to talk about it," Leia suggested quietly 
before Han could answer.

 Lando glanced past Han, as if only just noticing Luke's absence. "Where is he, 
anyway?"

 "He wanted to catch a fast shower and change," Han told him, shifting his attention to a 
small ore shuttle coming in for a landing. "Those X-wings don't have much in the way of 
comfort."

 "Especially over long trips," Lando agreed, tracing Han's gaze with his eyes. "I've 
always thought putting a hyperdrive on something that small was a poor idea."

 "I'd better see what's keeping him," Han decided suddenly. "You have a comm in this 
room?"

 "It's over there," Lando said, pointing toward a curved wooden bar at one end of the 
lounge. "Key for central; they'll track him down for you."

 "Thanks," Han called over his shoulder, already halfway there.

 "It's bad, isn't it?" Lando murmured to Leia, his eyes following Han across the room.

 "Bad enough," she admitted. "There's a chance that that Star Destroyer came here 
looking for me."

 For a moment, Lando was silent. "You came here for help." It wasn't a question.

 "Yes."

 He took a deep breath. "Well... I'll do what I can, of course."

 "Thank you," Leia said.

 "Sure," he said. But his eyes drifted from Han to the window and the activity beyond it, 
his expression hardening as he did so. Perhaps he was thinking of the last time Han and 
Leia had come to him for help.

 And what giving that help had cost him.

  

 Lando listened to the whole story in silence, then shook his head. "No," he said 
positively. "If there was a leak, it didn't come from Nkllon."

 "How can you be sure of that?" Leia asked.

 "Because there's been no bounty offered for you," Lando told her. "We have our fair 
share of shady people here, but they're all out for profit. None of them would turn you 
over to the Empire just for the fun of it. Besides, why would the Imperials steal my mole 
miners if they were after you?"

 "Harassment, maybe," Han suggested. "I mean, why steal mole miners anyway?"

 "You got me," Lando conceded. "Maybe they're trying to put economic pressure on one 
of my clients, or maybe they just want to disrupt the New Republic's flow of raw 
materials generally. Anyway, that's beside the point. The point is that they took the mole 
miners, and they didn't take you."

 "How do you know there's been no bounty offer?" Luke asked from his seat off to the 
right¢a seat, Leia had already noted, where he and his lightsaber would be between his 
friends and the room's only door. Apparently, he didn't feel any safer here than she did.

 "Because I'd have heard about it," Lando said, sounding a little miffed. "Just because I'm 
respectable doesn't mean I'm out of touch."

 "I told you he'd have contacts," Han said with a grimly satisfied nod. "Great. So which 
of these contacts do you trust, Lando?"

 "Well¢" Lando broke off as a beep came from his wrist. "Excuse me," he said, sliding a 
compact comlink from the decorative wristband and flicking it on. "Yes?"

 A voice said something, inaudible from where Leia was sitting. "What kind of 
transmitter?" Lando asked, frowning. The voice said something else. "All right, I'll take 
care of it. Continue scanning."

 He closed down the comlink and replaced it in his wristband. "That was my 
communications section," he said, looking around the room. "They've picked up a 
short-range transmitter on a very unusual frequency... which appears to be sending from 
this lounge."

 Beside her, Leia felt Han stiffen. "What kind of transmitter?" he demanded.

 "This kind, probably," Luke said. Standing up, he pulled a flattened cylinder from his 
tunic and stepped over to Lando. "I thought you might be able to identify it for me."

 Lando took the cylinder, hefted it. "Interesting," he commented, peering closely at the 
alien script on its surface. "I haven't seen one of these in years. Not this style, anyway. 
Where'd you get it?"

 "It was buried in mud in the middle of a swamp. Artoo was able to pick it up from pretty 
far away, but he couldn't tell me what it was."

 "That's our transmitter, all right," Lando nodded. "Amazing that it's still running."

 "What exactly is it transmitting?" Han asked, eyeing the device as if it were a dangerous 
snake.

 "Just a carrier signal," Lando assured him. "And the range is small¢well under a 
planetary radius. Nobody used it to follow Luke here, if that's what you were wondering."

 "Do you know what it is?" Luke asked.

 "Sure," Lando said, handing it back. "It's an old beckon call. Pre-Clone Wars vintage, 
from the looks of it."

 "A beckon call?" Luke frowned, cupping it in his hand. "You mean like a ship's 
remote?"

 "Right," Lando nodded. "Only a lot more sophisticated. If you had a ship with a full-rig 
slave system you could tap in a single command on the call and the ship would come 
straight to you, automatically maneuvering around any obstacles along the way. Some of 
them would even fight their way through opposing ships, if necessary, with a reasonable 
degree of skill." He shook his head in memory. "Which could be extremely useful at 
times."

 Han snorted under his breath. "Tell that to theKatana fleet."

 "Well, of course you have to build in some safeguards," Lando countered. "But to 
simply decentralize important ship's functions into dozens or hundreds of droids just 
creates its own set of problems. The limited jump-slave circuits we use here between 
transports and shieldships are certainly safe enough."

 "Did you use jump-slave circuits on Cloud City, too?" Luke asked. "Artoo said he saw 
you with one of these right after we got out of there."

 "My personal ship was full-rigged," Lando said. "I wanted something I could get at a 
moment's warning, just in case." His lip twitched. "Vader's people must have found it and 
shut it down while they were waiting for you, because it sure didn't come when I called it. 
You say you found it in aswamp ?"

 "Yes." Luke looked at Leia. "On Dagobah."

 Leia stared at him. "Dagobah?" she asked. "As in the planet that Dark Jedi from Bpfassh 
fled to?"

 Luke nodded. "That's the place." He fingered the beckon call, an odd expression on his 
face. "This must have been his."

 "It could just as easily have been lost some other time by someone else," Lando pointed 
out. "Pre-Clone Wars calls could run for a century or more on standby."

 "No," Luke said, shaking his head slowly. "It was his, all right. The cave where I found 
it absolutely tingles with the dark side. I think it must have been the place where he died."

 For a long moment they all sat in silence. Leia studied her brother closely, sensing the 
new tension lying just beneath the surface of his thoughts. Something else, besides the 
beckon call, must have happened to him on Dagobah. Something that tied in with the new 
sense of urgency she'd felt on the way in toward Nkllon...

 Luke looked up sharply, as if sensing the flow of Leia's thoughts. "We were talking 
about Lando's smuggler contacts," he said. The message was clear: this was not the time 
to ask him about it.

 "Right," Han said quickly. Apparently, he'd gotten the hint, too. "I need to know which 
of your marginally legal friends you can trust."

 The other shrugged. "Depends on what you need to trust them with."

 Han looked him straight in the eye. "Leia's life."

 Seated on Han's other side, Chewbacca growled something that sounded startled. 
Lando's mouth fell open, just slightly. "You're not serious."

 Han nodded, his eyes still locked on Lando's face. "You saw how close the Imperials are 
breathing down our necks. We need a place to hide her until Ackbar can find out how 
they're getting their information. She needs to stay in touch with what's happening on 
Coruscant, which means a diplomatic station we can quietly tap into."

 "And a diplomatic station means encrypt codes," Lando said heavily. "And quietly 
tapping into encrypt codes means finding a slicer."

 "A slicer you can trust."

 Lando hissed softly between his teeth and slowly shook his head. "I'm sorry, Han, but I 
don't know any slicers I trust that far."

 "Do you know any smuggler groups that have one or two on retainer?" Han persisted.

 "That I trust?" Lando pondered. "Not really. The only one who might even come close 
is a smuggler chief named Talon Karrde¢everyone I've talked to says he's extremely 
honest in his trade dealings."

 "Have you ever met him?" Luke asked.

 "Once," Lando said. "He struck me as a pretty cold fish¢ calculating and highly 
mercenary."

 "I've heard of Karrde," Han said. "Been trying for months to contact him, in fact. 
Dravis¢you remember Dravis?¢he told me Karrde's group was probably the biggest one 
around these days."

 "Could be," Lando shrugged. "Unlike Jabba, Karrde doesn't go around flaunting his 
power and influence. I'm not even sure where his base is, let alone what his loyalties are."

 "If hehas any loyalties," Han grunted; and in his eyes Leia could see the echoes of all 
those fruitless contacts with smuggling groups who preferred to sit on the political fence. 
"A lot of them out there don't."

 "It's an occupational hazard." Lando rubbed his chin, forehead wrinkled in thought. "I 
don't know, Han. I'd offer to put the two of you up here, but we just don't have the 
defenses to stop a really serious attack." He frowned into the distance. "Unless... we do 
something clever."

 "Such as?"

 "Such as taking a shuttle or living module and burying it underground," Lando said, a 
gleam coming into his eye. "We put it right by the dawn line, and within a few hours 
you'd be under direct sunlight. The Imperials wouldn't even be able to find you there, let 
alone get to you."

 Han shook his head. "Too risky. If we ran into any problems, there also wouldn't be any 
way for anyone to get help to us." Chewbacca pawed at his arm, grunting softly, and Han 
turned to face the Wookiee.

 "It wouldn't be as risky as it looks," Lando said, shifting his attention to Leia. "We 
should be able to make the capsule itself foolproof¢we've done similar things with 
delicate survey instrument packs without damaging them."

 "How long is Nkllon's rotation?" Leia asked. Chewbacca's grunting was getting 
insistent, but it still wasn't loud enough for her to make out what the discussion was all 
about.

 "Just over ninety standard days," Lando told her.

 "Which means we'd be completely out of touch with Coruscant for a minimum of 
forty-five. Unless you've got a transmitter that would operate on the sunside."

 Lando shook his head. "The best we've got would be fried in minutes."

 "In that case, I'm afraid¢"

 She broke off as, beside her, Han cleared his throat. "Chewie has a suggestion," he said, 
his face and voice a study in mixed feelings.

 They all looked at him. "Well?" Leia prompted.

 Han's lip twitched. "He says that if you want, he's willing to take you to Kashyyyk."

 Leia looked past him to Chewbacca, a strange and not entirely pleasant thrill running 
through her. "I was under the impression," she said carefully, "that Wookiees discouraged 
human visitors to their world."

 Chewbacca's reply was as mixed as Han's expression. Mixed, but solidly confident. 
"The Wookiees were friendly enough to humans before the Empire came in and started 
enslaving them," Han said. "Anyway, it ought to be possible to keep the visit pretty quiet: 
you, Chewie, the New Republic rep, and a couple of others."

 "Except that we're back to the New Republic rep knowing about me," Leia pointed out.

 "Yes, but he'll be a Wookiee," Lando pointed out. "If he accepts you under his personal 
protection, he won't betray you. Period."

 Leia studied Han's face. "Sounds good. So tell me why you don't like it."

 A muscle in Han's cheek twitched. "Kashyyyk isn't exactly the safest place in the 
galaxy," he said bluntly. "Especially for non-Wookiees. You'll be living in trees, 
hundreds of meters above the ground¢"

 "I'll be with Chewie," she reminded him firmly, suppressing a shiver. She'd heard stories 
about Kashyyyk's lethal ecology, too. "You've trusted your own life to him often 
enough."

 He shrugged uncomfortably. "This is different."

 "Why don't you go with them?" Luke suggested. "Then she'll be doubly protected."

 "Right," Han said sourly. "I was planning to; except that Chewie thinks it'll gain us more 
time if Leia and I split up. He takes her to Kashyyyk; I fly around in theFalcon , 
pretending she's still with me. Somehow."

 Lando nodded. "Makes sense to me."

 Leia looked at Luke, the obvious suggestion coming to her lips... and dying there 
unsaid. Something in his face warned her not to ask him to come with them. "Chewie and 
I will be fine," she said, squeezing Han's hand. "Don't worry."

 "I guess that's settled, then," Lando said. "You can use my ship, of course, Chewie. In 
fact¢" he looked thoughtful "¢if you want company, Han, maybe I'll come along with 
you."

 Han shrugged, clearly still unhappy with the arrangement. "If you want to, sure."

 "Good," Lando said. "We should probably fly out of Nkllon together¢I've been planning 
an offworld purchasing trip for a couple of weeks now, so I've got an excuse to leave. 
Once we're past the shieldship depot, Chewie and Leia can take my ship and no one'll be 
the wiser."

 "And then Han sends some messages to Coruscant pretending Leia's aboard?" Luke 
asked.

 Lando smiled slyly. "Actually, I think we can do a little bit better than that. You still 
have Threepio with you?"

 "He's helping Artoo run a damage check on theFalcon ," Leia told him. "Why?"

 "You'll see," Lando said, getting to his feet. "This'll take a little time, but I think it'll be 
worth it. Come on¢let's go talk to my chief programmer."

  

 The chief programmer was a little man with dreamy blue eyes, a thin swath of hair 
arcing like a gray rainbow from just over his eyebrows to the nape of his neck, and a 
shiny borg implant wrapped around the back of his head. Luke listened as Lando outlined 
the procedure and watched long enough to make sure it was all going smoothly. Then, 
quietly, he slipped out, returning to the quarters Lando's people had assigned him.

 He was still there an hour later, poring uselessly over what seemed to be an endless 
stream of star charts, when Leia found him.

 "There you are," she said, coming in and glancing at the charts on his display. "We were 
