few days first to shield the viewports and remove external sensors and communications 
equipment."

 Pellaeon nodded, swallowing his next question. There would, of course, be none of the 
difficulties that would normally arise from blinding and deafening a Star Destroyer in 
that way. Not as long as C'baoth was with them.

 "Grand Admiral Thrawn?"

 Thrawn turned around. "Yes, Master C'baoth?"

 "Where are my Jedi, Grand Admiral Thrawn? You promised me that your tame Noghri 
would bring me my Jedi."

 Out of the corner of his eye, Pellaeon saw Rukh stir. "Patience, Master C'baoth," 
Thrawn told him. "Their preparations took time, but they're now complete. They await 
merely the proper time to act."

 "That time had best be soon," C'baoth warned him. "I grow tired of waiting."

 Thrawn threw a glance at Pellaeon, a quietly smoldering look in his glowing red eyes. 
"As do we all," he said quietly.

  

 Far ahead of the freighterWild Karrde , one of the Imperial Star Destroyers centered in 
the cockpit's forward viewport gave a flicker of pseudomotion and disappeared. "They're 
leaving," Mara announced.

 "What, already?" Karrde said from behind her, his voice frowning.

 "Already," she confirmed, keying the helm display for tactical. "One of the Star 
Destroyers just went to lightspeed; the others are breaking off and starting prelightspeed 
maneuvering."

 "Interesting," Karrde murmured, coming up to look out the viewport over her shoulder. 
"A hit-and-fade attack¢and with Star Destroyers, yet. Not something you see every day."

 "I heard about something like that happening over at the Draukyze system a couple of 
months back," the copilot, a bulky man named Lachton, offered. "Same kind of 
hit-and-fade, except there was only one Star Destroyer on that one."

 "At a guess, I'd say we're seeing Grand Admiral Thrawn's influence on Imperial 
strategy," Karrde said, his tone thoughtful with just a hint of concern mixed in. "Strange, 
though. He seems to be taking an inordinate amount of risk for the potential benefits 
involved. I wonder what exactly he's up to."

 "Whatever it is, it'll be something complicated," Mara told him, hearing the bitterness in 
her voice. "Thrawn was never one to do things simply. Even back in the old days when 
the Empire was capable of style or subtlety, he stood out above the rest."

 "You can't afford to be simple when your territory's shrinking the way the Empire's has 
been." Karrde paused, and Mara could feel him gazing down at her. "You seem to know 
something about the Grand Admiral."

 "I know something about a lot of things," she countered evenly. "That's why you're 
grooming me to be your lieutenant, remember?"

 "Touche," he said easily. "¢there goes another one."

 Mara looked out the viewport in time to see a third Star Destroyer go to lightspeed. One 
more to go. "Shouldn't we get moving?" she asked Karrde. "That last one will be gone in 
a minute."

 "Oh, we're scratching the delivery," he told her. "I just thought it might be instructive to 
watch the battle, as long as we happened to be here at the right time."

 Mara frowned up at him. "What do you mean, we're scratching the delivery? They're 
expecting us."

 "Yes, they are," he nodded. "Unfortunately, as of right now, the whole system is also 
expecting a small hornet's nest of New Republic ships. Hardly the sort of atmosphere one 
would like to fly into with a shipload of contraband materials."

 "What makes you think they'll come?" Mara demanded. "They're not going to be in time 
to do anything."

 "No, but that's not really the point of such a show," Karrde said. "The point is to score 
domestic political gains by bustling around, presenting a comforting display of force, and 
otherwise convincing the locals that something like this can never happen again."

 "And promising to help clean up the wreckage," Lachton put in.

 "That goes without saying," Karrde agreed dryly. "Regardless, it's not a situation we 
really want to fly into. We'll send a transmission from our next stop telling them we'll try 
to make delivery again in a week."

 "I still don't like it," Mara insisted. "We promised them we'd do it. Wepromised ."

 There was a short pause. "It's standard procedure," Karrde told her, a touch of curiosity 
almost hidden beneath the usual urbane smoothness of his voice. "I'm sure they'd prefer 
late delivery to losing the entire shipment."

 With an effort, Mara forced the black haze of memory away. Promises... "I suppose so," 
she conceded, blinking her attention back to the control board. While they'd been talking, 
the last Star Destroyer had apparently gone to lightspeed, leaving nothing behind but 
enraged and impotent defenders and mass destruction. A mess for the New Republic's 
politicians and military people to clean up.

 For a moment she gazed out at the distant planets. Wondering if Luke Skywalker might 
be among those the New Republic would send to help clean up that mess.

 "Whenever you're ready, Mara."

 With an effort, she shook away the thought. "Yes, sir," she said, reaching for the 
board.Not yet, she told herself silently.Not yet. But soon. Very, very soon.

  

 The remote swooped; hesitated; swooped again; hesitated again; swooped once more 
and fired. Leia, swinging her new lightsaber in an overlarge arc, was just a shade too 
slow. "Gah!" she grunted, taking a step backward.

 "You're not giving the Force enough control," Luke told her. "You have to¢ Wait a 
minute."

 Reaching out with the Force, he put the remote on pause. He remembered vividly that 
first practice session on theFalcon , when he'd had to concentrate on Ben Kenobi's 
instructions while at the same time keeping a wary eye on the remote. Doing both 
together hadn't been easy.

 But perhaps that had been the whole idea. Perhaps a lesson learned under stress was 
learned better.

 He wished he knew.

 "I'm giving it all the control I can," Leia said, rubbing her arm where the remote's 
stinger blast had caught her. "I just don't have the proper techniques down yet." She 
impaled him with a look. "Or else I just wasn't cut out for this sort of fighting."

 "You can learn it," Luke said firmly. "Ilearned it, and I never had any of that 
self-defense training you got when you were growing up on Alderaan."

 "Maybe that's the problem," Leia said. "Maybe all those old fighting reflexes are getting 
in my way."

 "I suppose that's possible," Luke admitted, wishing he knew that, too. "In that case, the 
sooner you start unlearning them, the better. Now: ready¢"

 The door buzzed. "It's Han," Leia said, stepping away from the remote and closing 
down her lightsaber. "Come in," she called.

 "Hi," Han said as he walked into the room, glancing in turn at Leia and Luke. He wasn't 
smiling. "How's the lesson going?"

 "Not bad," Luke said.

 "Don't ask," Leia countered, frowning at her husband. "What's wrong?"

 "The Imperials," Han said sourly. "They just pulled a three-prong hit-and-fade on three 
systems in the Sluis sector. Some place called Bpfassh and two unpronounceable ones."

 Luke whistled softly. "Three at once. Getting pretty cocky, aren't they?"

 "That seems par for them these days." Leia shook her head, the skin around her eyes 
tight with concentration. "They're up to something, Han¢I can feel it. Something big; 
something dangerous." She waved her hands helplessly. "But I can't for the life of me 
figure out what it could be."

 "Yeah, Ackbar's been saying the same thing," Han nodded. "Problem is he's got nothing 
to back it up. Except for the style and tactics, this is all pretty much the same rear-guard 
harassment the Empire's been pulling for probably the last year and a half."

 "I know," Leia gritted. "But don't sell Ackbar short¢he's got good military instincts. No 
matter what certain other people say."

 Han cocked an eyebrow. "Hey, sweetheart, I'm onyour side. Remember?"

 She smiled wanly. "Sorry. How bad was the damage?"

 Han shrugged. "Not nearly as bad as it could have been. Especially considering that they 
hit each place with four Star Destroyers. But all three systems are pretty shook up."

 "I can imagine," Leia sighed. "Let me guess: Mon Mothma wants me to go out there and 
assure them that the New Republic reallyis able and willing to protect them."

 "How'd you guess?" Han growled. "Chewie's getting theFalcon prepped now."

 "You're not going alone, are you?" Luke asked. "After Bimmisaari¢"

 "Oh, don't worry," Han said, throwing him a tight smile. "We're not going to be sitting 
ducks this time. There's a twenty-ship convoy going out to assess the damage, plus 
Wedge and Rogue Squadron. It'll be safe enough."

 "That's what we said about Bimmisaari, too," Luke pointed out. "I'd better come along."

 Han looked at Leia. "Well, actually... you can't."

 Luke frowned at him. "Why not?"

 "Because," Leia answered quietly, "the Bpfasshi don't like Jedi."

 Han's lip twisted. "The story is that some of their Jedi went bad during the Clone Wars 
and really mangled things before they were stopped. Or so Mon Mothma says."

 "She's right," Leia nodded. "We were still getting echoes of the whole fiasco in the 
Imperial Senate when I was serving there. It wasn't just Bpfassh, either¢some of those 
Dark Jedi escaped and made trouble all throughout the Sluis sector. One of them even got 
as far as Dagobah before he was caught."

 Luke felt a jolt run through him.Dagobah? "When was that?" he asked as casually as 
possible.

 "Thirty, thirty-five years ago," Leia said, her forehead creased slightly as she studied his 
face. "Why?"

 Luke shook his head. Yoda had never mentioned a Dark Jedi ever being on Dagobah. 
"No reason," he murmured.

 "Come on, we can discuss history later," Han put in. "The sooner we get going, the 
sooner we can get this over with."

 "Right," Leia agreed, latching her lightsaber to her belt and heading for the door. "I'll 
get my travel bag and give Winter some instructions. Meet you at the ship."

 Luke watched her leave; turned back to find Han eyeing him. "I don't like it," he told the 
other.

 "Don't worry¢she'll be safe," Han assured him. "Look, I know how protective you're 
feeling toward her these days. But she can't always have her big brother standing over 
her."

 "Actually, we've never figured out which of us is older," Luke murmured.

 "Whatever," Han waved the detail away. "The best thing you can do for her right now is 
what you're already doing. You make her a Jedi, and she'll be able to handle anything the 
Imperials can throw at her."

 Luke's stomach tightened. "I suppose so."

 "As long as Chewie and me are with her, that is," Han amended, heading for the door. 
"See you when we get back."

 "Be careful," Luke called after him.

 Han turned, one of those hurt/innocent expressions on his face. "Hey," he said. "It'sme ."

 He left, and Luke was alone.

 For a few moments he wandered around the room, fighting against the heavy weight of 
responsibility that seemed sometimes on the verge of smothering him. Risking his own 
life was one thing, but to have Leia's future in his hands was something else entirely. "I'm 
not a teacher," he called aloud into the empty room.

 The only response was a flicker of movement from the still-paused remote. On sudden 
impulse, Luke kicked the device to life again, snatching his lightsaber from his belt as it 
moved to the attack. A dozen stinger blasts shot out in quick succession as the remote 
swooped like a crazed insect; effortlessly, Luke blocked each in turn, swinging the 
lightsaber in a flashing arc that seemed to engulf him, a strange exultation flowing 
through mind and body.This was something he could fight¢not distant and shadowy like 
his private fears, but something solid and tangible. The remote fired again and again, 
each shot ricocheting harmlessly from the lightsaber blade¢

 With a sudden beep the remote stopped. Luke stared at it in confusion, wondering what 
had happened... and abruptly realized he was breathing heavily. Breathing heavily, and 
sweating. The remote had a twenty-minute time limit built in, and he'd just come to the 
end of it.

 He closed down the lightsaber and returned it to his belt, feeling a little eerie about what 
had just happened. It wasn't the first time he'd lost track of time like that, but always 
before it had been during quiet meditation. The only times it had happened in anything 
like a combat situation were back on Dagobah, under Yoda's supervision.

 On Dagobah...

 Wiping the sweat out of his eyes with his sleeve, he walked over to the comm desk in 
the corner and punched up the spaceport. "This is Skywalker," he identified himself. "I'd 
like my X-wing prepped for launch in one hour."

 "Yes, sir," the young maintenance officer said briskly. "We'll need you to send over 
your astromech unit first."

 "Right," Luke nodded. He'd refused to let them wipe the X-wing's computer every few 
months, as per standard procedure. The inevitable result was that the computer had 
effectively molded itself around Artoo's unique personality, so much so that the 
relationship was almost up to true droid counterpart level. It made for excellent 
operational speed and efficiency; unfortunately, it also meant that none of the 
maintenance computers could talk to the X-wing anymore. "I'll have him there in a few 
minutes."

 "Yes, sir."

 Luke keyed off and straightened up, wondering vaguely why he was doing this. Surely 
Yoda's presence would no longer be there on Dagobah for him to talk to or ask questions 
of.

 But then, perhaps it would.

  

 Chapter 10

 "As you can see," Wedge said, his voice grimly conversational as he crunched through 
plastic and ceramic underfoot, "the place is something of a mess."

 "That's for sure," Leia agreed, feeling a little sick as she looked around at the 
flat-bottomed, rubble-strewn crater. A handful of other Republic representatives from her 
party were wandering around the area, too, holding quiet conversations with their 
Bpfasshi escorts and occasionally pausing to pick through the pieces of what had once 
been a major power plant. "How many people died in the attack?" she asked, not at all 
sure she wanted to hear the answer.

 "In this system, a few hundred," Wedge told her, consulting a data pad. "Not too bad, 
really."

 "No." Involuntarily, Leia glanced up at the deep blue-green sky above them. Not bad, 
indeed. Especially considering that there had been no fewer than four Star Destroyers 
raining destruction down on them. "A lot of damage, though."

 "Yeah," Wedge nodded. "But not nearly as much as there could have been."

 "I wonder why," Han muttered.

 "So does everyone else," Wedge agreed. "It's been the second most popular question 
around here these days."

 "What's the first?" Leia asked.

 "Let me guess," Han put in before Wedge could answer. "The first is, why did they 
bother pounding on Bpfassh in the first place."

 "You got it," Wedge nodded again. "It's not like they didn't have any better targets to 
choose from. You've got the Sluis Van shipyards about thirty light-years away, for 
starters¢a hundred ships there at any given time, not to mention the docking facilities 
themselves. Then there's the Praesitlyn communications station at just under sixty, and 
four or five major trade centers within a hundred. An extra day of travel each way, tops, 
at Star Destroyer cruising speeds. So why Bpfassh?"

 Leia thought it over. Itwas a good question. "Sluis Van itself is pretty heavily 
defended," she pointed out. "Between our Star Cruisers and the Sluissi's own permanent 
battle stations, any Imperial leader with a gram of sense would think twice before 
tackling it. And those other systems are all a lot deeper into New Republic space than 
Bpfassh. Maybe they didn't want to push their luck that far."

 "While they tested their new transmission system under combat conditions?" Han 
suggested darkly.

 "We don'tknow that they've got a new system," Wedge cautioned him. "Coordinated 
simultaneous attacks have been done before."

 "No." Han shook his head, looking around. "No, they've got something new. Some kind 
of booster that lets them punch subspace transmissions through deflector shields and 
battle debris."

 "I don't think it's a booster," Leia said, a shiver running up her back. Something was 
starting to tingle, way back at the edge of her mind. "No one in any of the three systems 
picked up any transmissions."

 Han frowned down at her. "You okay?" he asked quietly.

 "Yes," she murmured, shivering again. "I was just remembering that when¢well, when 
Darth Vader was having us tortured on Bespin, Luke knew it was happening from 
wherever he was at the time. And there were rumors that the Emperor and Vader could 
do that, too."

 "Yeah, but they're both dead," Han reminded her. "Luke said so."

 "I know," she said. The tingling at the edge of her mind was getting stronger... "But 
what if the Imperials have found another Dark Jedi?"

 Wedge had gotten ahead of them, but now he turned back. "You talking about C'baoth?"

 "What?" Leia frowned.

 "Joruus C'baoth," Wedge said. "I thought I heard you mention Jedi."

 "I did," Leia said. "Who's Joruus C'baoth?"

 "He was one of the major Jedi Masters back in pre-Empire days," Wedge said. 
"Supposed to have disappeared before the Clone Wars started. I heard a rumor a couple 
of days ago that he's surfaced again and set up shop on some minor world named 
Jomark."

 "Right." Han snorted. "And he was just sitting around doing nothing during the 
Rebellion?"

 Wedge shrugged. "I just report 'em, General. I don't make 'em up."

 "We can ask Luke," Leia said. "Maybe he knows something. Are we ready to move 
on?"

 "Sure," Wedge said. "The airspeeders are over this way¢"

 And in a sudden rush of sensation, the tingling in Leia's mind abruptly exploded into 
certain knowledge. "Han, Wedge¢duck!"

 ¢and at the rim of the crater a handful of well-remembered gray-skinned aliens 
appeared.

 "Cover!" Han shouted to the other Republic reps in the crater as the aliens opened up 
with blasters. Grabbing Leia's wrist, he dived for the limited protection of a huge but 
badly twisted plate of shielding metal that had somehow gotten itself dug halfway into 
the ground. Wedge was right behind them, slamming hard into Leia as he reached cover.

 "Sorry," he panted in apology, yanking out his blaster and turning to throw a cautious 
look around the edge of their shelter. One look was all he got before a blaster bolt 
spattered metal near his face and sent him jerking back. "I'm not sure," he said, "but I 
think we've got trouble."

 "I think you're right," Han agreed grimly. Leia turned to see him, blaster drawn, 
returning his comlink to his belt with his free hand. "They've learned. This time they're 
jamming our communications."

 Leia felt cold all over. Way out here, without comlinks, they were as good as helpless. 
Totally cut off from any possibility of help...

 Her hand, reaching automatically for her stomach, brushed her new lightsaber instead. 
She pulled it free, a fresh determination pushing past the fear. Jedi or not, experienced or 
not, she wasn't going to give up without a fight.

 "Sounds like you've run into these guys before," Wedge said, reaching around the 
barrier to squeeze off a couple of blind shots in the general direction of their attackers.

 "We've met," Han grunted back, trying to get into position for a clear shot. "Haven't 
really figured out what they want, though."

 Leia reached for her lightsaber's control stud, wondering if she had enough skill yet to 
block blaster fire... and paused. Over the noise of blasters and crackling metal she could 
hear a new sound. A very familiar sound... "Han!"

 "I hear it," Han said. "Way to go, Chewie."

 "What?" Wedge asked.

 "That whine you hear is theFalcon ," Han told him, leaning back to look over their 
shelter. "Probably discovered they were jamming us and put two and two together. Here 
he comes."

 With a screaming roar the familiar shape of theMillennium Falcon swooped by 
overhead. It circled once, ignoring the ineffectual blasts ricocheting from its underside, 
and dropped to a bumpy landing directly between them and their attackers. Peering 
cautiously around their barrier, Leia saw the ramp lower toward them.

 "Great," Han said, looking past her shoulder. "Okay. I'll go first and cover you from the 
bottom of the ramp. Leia, you're next; Wedge, you bring up the rear. Stay sharp¢they 
may try to flank us."

 "Got it," Wedge nodded. "Ready when you are."

 "Okay." Han got his feet under him¢

 "Wait a minute," Leia said suddenly, gripping his arm. "There's something wrong."

 "Right¢we're getting shot at," Wedge put in.

 "I'm serious," Leia snapped. "Something here's not right."

 "Like what?" Han asked, frowning at her. "Come on, Leia, we can't sit here all day."

 Leia gritted her teeth, trying to chase down the feeling tingling through her. It was still 
so nebulous... and then suddenly she had it. "It's Chewie," she told them. "I can't feel his 
presence on the ship."

 "He's probably just too far away," Wedge said, a distinct note of impatience in his voice. 
"Come on¢he's going to get the ship shot out from under him if we don't get going."

 "Hang on a minute," Han growled, still frowning at Leia. "He's okay for now¢all they're 
using is hand blasters. Anyway, if things get too hot, he can always use the¢"

 He broke off, a strange look on his face. A second later, Leia got it, too. "The underside 
swivel blaster," she said. "Why isn't he using it?"

 "Good question," Han said grimly. He leaned out again, taking a hard look this time... 
and when he ducked back under cover there was a sardonic half-grin on his face. "Simple 
answer: that's not theFalcon ."

 "What?" Wedge asked, his jaw dropping a couple of centimeters.

 "It's a fake," Han told him. "I can't believe it¢these guys actually dug up another 
working YT-1300 freighter somewhere."

 Wedge whistled softly. "Boy, they must really want you bad."

 "Yeah, I'm starting to get that impression myself," Han said. "Got any good ideas?"

 Wedge glanced around the edge of the barrier. "I don't suppose running for it qualifies."

 "Not with them sitting out there at the edge of the crater waiting to pick us off," Leia 
told him.

 "Yeah," Han agreed. "And as soon as they realize we're not going to just walk into their 
decoy, it'll probably get worse."

 "Is there any way we can at least disable that ship?" Leia asked him. "Keep it from 
taking off and attacking us from above?"

 "There are lots of ways," he grunted. "The problem is you have to be inside for most of 
them. The outside shielding isn't great, but it blocks hand blasters just fine."

 "Will it block a lightsaber?"

 He threw a suspicious frown at her. "You're not suggesting...?"

 "I don't think we've got any choice," she told him. "Do we?"

 "I suppose not," he grimaced. "All right¢butI'll go."

 Leia shook her head. "We all go," she said. "We know they want at least one of us 
alive¢otherwise, they'd just have flown by overhead and blasted us. If we all go together, 
they won't be able to fire. We'll head straight in as if we're going aboard, then split off to 
the sides at the last second and take cover behind the ramp. Wedge and I can fire up and 
inside to keep them busy while you take the lightsaber and disable them."

 "I don't know," Han muttered. "I think just Wedge and me should go."

 "No, it has to be all of us," Leia insisted. "That's the only way to guarantee they won't 
shoot."

 Han looked at Wedge. "What do you think?"

 "I think it's the best chance we're going to get," the other said. "But if we do it, we'd 
better do it fast."

 "Yeah." Han took a deep breath and handed Leia his blaster. "All right. Give me the 
lightsaber. Okay; ready... go."

 He ducked out from cover and charged for the ship, crouching down as he ran to avoid 
the blaster fire crisscrossing the crater¢the other Republic reps, Leia noted as she and 
Wedge followed, doing a good job of keeping the rim attackers busy. Inside the ship she 
could see a hint of movement, and she gripped Han's blaster a little tighter. A half second 
in the lead, Han reached the ramp; and swerving suddenly to the side ducked under the 
hull.

 The aliens must have realized instantly that their trap had failed. Even as Leia and 
Wedge skidded to a halt at opposite sides of the ramp, they were greeted by a burst of 
blaster fire from the open hatch. Dropping to the ground, Leia squirmed as far back as she 
could under the ramp, firing blindly into the hatch to discourage those inside from 
coming down after them. Across the ramp, Wedge was also firing; somewhere behind 
her, she could hear a faint scrabbling across the ground as Han got into position for 
whatever sabotage he was planning. A shot blazed past from above, narrowly missing her 
left shoulder, and she tried to back a little farther into the ramp's shadow. Behind her, 
clearly audible through the blaster fire, she heard asnap-hiss as Han ignited her 
lightsaber. Gritting her teeth, she braced herself, not knowing quite why¢

 And with a blast and shock wave that knocked her flat against the ground, the whole 
ship bounced a meter in the air and then slammed back down again.

 Through the ringing in her ears, she heard someone give a war whoop. The firing from 
the hatch had abruptly stopped, and in the silence she could hear a strange hissing roar 
coming from above her. Cautiously, she eased away from the ramp and crawled a little 
ways out of concealment.

 She'd been prepared to see the freighter leaking something as a result of Han's sabotage. 
She wasn't prepared for the huge white gaseous plume that was shooting skyward like the 
venting of a ruptured volcano.

 "You like it?" Han asked, easing over beside her and glancing up to admire his 
handiwork.

