violently¢being pawed by strangers.

 They passed through the crowd, and the Bimm walking nearest Leia sang something. 
"He says the Tower of Law is just ahead," Threepio translated. "It's the location of their 
planetary council."

 Leia peered over the heads of the leading Bimms. There, obviously, was the Tower of 
Law. And next to it... "Threepio, ask what that thing is beside it," she instructed the droid. 
"That building that looks like a three-level dome with the sides and most of the roof cut 
away."

 The droid sang, and the Bimm replied. "It's the city's main marketplace," Threepio told 
her. "He says they prefer the open air whenever possible."

 "That roof probably stretches to cover more of the dome framework when the weather's 
bad," Han added from behind her. "I've seen that design in a few other places."

 "He says that perhaps you can be given a tour of the facility before you leave," Threepio 
added.

 "Sounds great," Han said. "Wonderful place to pick up souvenirs."

 "Quiet," Leia warned. "Or you can wait in theFalcon with Chewie."

 The Bimmisaari Tower of Law was fairly modest, as planetary council meeting places 
went, topping the three-level marketplace beside it by only a couple of floors. Inside, they 
were led to a large room on the ground floor where, framed by huge tapestries covering 
the walls, another group of Bimms waited. Three of them stood and sang as Leia entered.

 "They add their greetings to those given you at the landing area, Princess Leia," 
Threepio translated. "They apologize, however, for the fact that the talks will not be able 
to begin quite yet. It appears that their chief negotiator became ill just moments ago."

 "Oh," Leia said, taken slightly aback. "Please express our sympathies, and ask if there's 
anything we can do to help."

 "They thank you," Threepio said after another exchange of songs. "But they assure you 
that will not be necessary. There is no danger to him, merely inconvenience." The droid 
hesitated. "I really don't think you should inquire further, Your Highness," he added, a bit 
delicately. "The complaint appears to be of a rather personal nature."

 "I understand," Leia said gravely, suppressing a smile at the prim tone of the droid's 
voice. "Well, in that case, I suppose we might as well return to theFalcon until he feels 
ready to continue."

 The droid translated, and one of their escort stepped forward and sang something in 
reply. "He offers an alternative, Your Highness: that he would be eager to conduct you on 
a tour of the marketplace while you wait."

 Leia glanced at Han and Luke. "Any objections?"

 The Bimm sang something else. "He further suggests that Master Luke and Captain 
Solo might find something to interest them in the Tower's upper chambers," Threepio 
said. "Apparently, there are relics there dating from the middle era of the Old Republic."

 A quiet alarm went off in the back of Leia's mind. Were the Bimms trying to split them 
up? "Luke and Han might like the market, too," she said cautiously.

 There was another exchange of arias. "He says they would find it excessively dull," 
Threepio told her. "Frankly, if it's anything like marketplaces I've seen¢"

 "I like marketplaces," Han cut him off brusquely, his voice dark with suspicion. "I like 
'em a lot."

 Leia looked at her brother. "What do you think?"

 Luke's eyes swept the Bimms; measuring them, she knew, with all of his Jedi insight. "I 
don't see what danger they could be," he said slowly. "I don't sense any real duplicity in 
them. Nothing beyond that of normal politics, anyway."

 Leia nodded, her tension easing a little. Normal politics¢ yes, that was probably all it 
was. The Bimm probably just wanted the chance to privately bend her ear on behalf of 
his particular viewpoint before the talks got started in earnest. "In that case," she said, 
inclining her head to the Bimm, "we accept."

  

 "The marketplace has been in this same spot for over two hundred years," Threepio 
translated as Han and Leia followed their host up the gentle ramp between the second and 
third levels of the open dome structure. "Though not in this exact form, of course. The 
Tower of Law, in fact, was built here precisely because it was already a common 
crossroads."

 "Hasn't changed much, has it?" Han commented, pressing close to Leia to keep them 
from getting run down by a particularly determined batch of shoppers. He'd seen a lot of 
marketplaces on a lot of different planets, but seldom one so crowded.

 Crowded with more than just locals, too. Scattered throughout the sea of yellow-clad 
Bimms¢don't they ever wear any other color?¢he could see several other humans, a pair 
of Baradas, an Ishi Tib, a group of Yuzzumi, and something that looked vaguely like a 
Paonnid.

 "You can see why this place is worth getting into the New Republic," Leia murmured to 
him.

 "I guess so," Han conceded, stepping to one of the booths and looking at the metalware 
displayed there. The owner/operator sang something toward him, gesturing to a set of 
carving knives. "No, thanks," Han told him, moving back. The Bimm continued to jabber 
at him, his gestures becoming sharper¢ "Threepio, will you have our host tell him that 
we're not interested?" he called to the droid.

 There was no response. "Threepio?" he repeated, looking around.

 Threepio was staring off into the crowd. "Hey, Goldenrod," he snapped. "I'm talking to 
you."

 Threepio spun back. "I'm terribly sorry, Captain Solo," he apologized. "But our host 
seems to have disappeared."

 "What do you mean, disappeared?" Han demanded, looking around. Their particular 
Bimm, he remembered, had worn a set of shiny pins on his shoulders.

 Pins that were nowhere to be seen. "How could he just disappear?"

 Beside him, Leia gripped his hand. "I've got a bad feeling about this," she said tightly. 
"Let's get back to the Tower."

 "Yeah," Han agreed. "Come on, Threepio. Don't get lost." Shifting his grip on Leia's 
hand, he turned¢

 And froze. A few meters away, islands in the churning sea of yellow, three aliens stood 
facing them. Short aliens, not much taller than the Bimms, with steel-gray skin, large 
dark eyes, and protruding jaws.

 And, held ready in their hands, stokhli sticks.

 "We've got trouble," he murmured to Leia, turning his head slowly to look around, 
hoping desperately that those three were all there were.

 They weren't. There were at least eight more, arrayed in a rough circle ten meters across. 
A circle with Han, Leia, and Threepio at its center.

 "Han!" Leia said urgently.

 "I see them," he muttered. "We're in trouble, sweetheart."

 He sensed her glance behind them. "Who are they?" she breathed.

 "I don't know¢never seen anything like them before. But they're not kidding around. 
Those things are called stokhli sticks¢shoot a spraynet mist two hundred meters, with 
enough shockstun juice to take down a good-sized Gundark." Abruptly, Han noticed that 
he and Leia had moved, instinctively backing away from the nearest part of the aliens' 
circle. He glanced over his shoulder¢ "They're herding us toward the down ramp," he told 
her. "Must be trying to take us without stirring up the crowd."

 "We're doomed," Threepio moaned.

 Leia gripped Han's hand. "What are we going to do?"

 "Let's see how closely they're paying attention." Trying to watch all the aliens at once, 
Han casually reached his free hand toward the comlink attached to his collar.

 The nearest alien lifted his stokhli stick warningly. Han froze, slowly lowered the hand 
again. "So much for that idea," he muttered. "I think it's time to pull in the welcome mat. 
Better give Luke a shout."

 "He can't help us."

 Han glanced down at her; at her glazed eyes and pinched face. "Why not?" he 
demanded, stomach tightening.

 She sighed, just audibly. "They've got him, too."

  

 Chapter 7

 It was more a feeling than anything approaching an actual word, but it echoed through 
Luke's mind as clearly as if he'd heard it shouted.

 Help!

 He spun around, the ancient tapestry he'd been studying forgotten as his Jedi senses 
flared into combat readiness. Around him, the large top-floor Tower room was as it had 
been a minute earlier: deserted except for a handful of Bimms strolling among the huge 
wall tapestries and relic cases. No danger here, at least nothing immediate.What is it? he 
sent back, starting for the next room and the staircase leading down.

 He caught a quick vision from Leia's mind, a picture of alien figures and a vivid 
impression of a contracting noose.Hang on, he told her.I'm coming. All but running now, 
he ducked through the doorway to the staircase room, grabbing the jamb to help with his 
turn¢

 And braked to an abrupt halt. Standing between him and the stairway was a loose 
semicircle of seven silent gray figures.

 Luke froze, his hand still uselessly gripping the doorjamb, half a galaxy away from the 
lightsaber on his belt. He had no idea what the sticks were his assailants were pointing at 
him, but he had no desire to find out the hard way. Not unless he absolutely had to. 
"What do you want?" he asked aloud.

 The alien in the center of the semicircle¢the leader, Luke guessed¢gestured with his 
stick. Luke glanced over his shoulder into the room he'd just left. "You want me to go 
back in there?" he asked.

 The leader gestured again... and this time Luke saw it. The small, almost insignificant 
tactical error. "All right," he said, as soothingly as possible. "No problem." Keeping his 
eyes on the aliens and his hands away from his lightsaber, he began to back up.

 They herded him steadily back across the room toward another archway and a room he 
hadn't gotten to before Leia's emergency call had come. "If you'd just tell me what you 
want, I'm sure we could come to some sort of agreement," Luke suggested as he walked. 
Faint scuffling sounds told him that there were still some Bimms wandering around, 
presumably the reason the aliens hadn't already attacked. "I would hope we could at least 
talk about it. There's no particular reason why any of you has to be hurt."

 Reflexively, the leader's left thumb moved. Not much, but Luke was watching, and it 
was enough. A thumb trigger, then. "If you have some business with me, I'm willing to 
talk," he continued. "You don't need my friends in the marketplace for that."

 He was almost to the archway now. A couple more steps to go. If they'd just hold off 
shooting him that long...

 And then he was there, with the carved stone looming over him. "Now where?" he 
asked, forcing his muscles to relax. This was it.

 Again, the leader gestured with his stick... and midway through the motion, for a single 
instant, the weapon was pointed not at Luke but at two of his own companions.

 And reaching out through the Force, Luke triggered the thumb switch. There was a loud, 
sharp hiss as the stick bucked in its owner's hands and what looked like a fine spray shot 
out the end.

 Luke didn't wait to see what exactly the spray did. The maneuver had bought him 
maybe a half second of confusion, and he couldn't afford to waste any of it. Throwing 
himself back and to the side, he did a flip into the room behind him, angling to get to the 
slight protection afforded by the wall beside the doorway.

 He just barely made it. Even as he cleared the archway there was a stuttering salvo of 
sharp hisses, and as he flipped back to his feet he saw that the doorjamb had grown 
strange semisolid tendrils of some thin, translucent material. Another tendril shot through 
the doorway as he hastily backed farther away, sweeping in a spiral curve that seemed to 
turn from fine mist to liquid stream to solid cylinder even as it curved.

 His lightsaber was in his hand now, igniting with asnap-hiss of its own. They'd be 
through that doorway in seconds, he knew, all efforts at subtlety abandoned. And when 
they came¢

 He clenched his teeth, a memory of his brief skiff-battle encounter with Boba Fett 
flashing through his mind. Wrapped in the bounty hunter's smart-rope, he'd escaped only 
by snapping the cable with a deflected blaster shot. But here there would be no blasters to 
try that trick with.

 For that matter, he wasn't absolutely sure what his lightsaber could do directly against 
the sprays. It would be like trying to cut through a rope that was continually re-creating 
itself.

 Or rather, like trying to cut seven such ropes.

 He could hear their footsteps now, sprinting toward his room even as the spiraling 
tendril sweeping the doorway made sure he stayed too far back to ambush them as they 
came through it. A standard military technique, played out with the kind of precision that 
showed he wasn't dealing with amateurs.

 He raised the lightsaber to en garde position, risking a quick look around. The room was 
decorated like all the others he'd seen on this floor, with ancient wall tapestries and other 
relics¢ no real cover anywhere. His eyes flicked across the walls, searching for the exit 
that by implication had to be here somewhere. But the action was so much useless reflex. 
Wherever the exit was, it was almost certainly too far away to do him any good.

 The hiss of the spray stopped; and he turned back just in time to see the aliens charge 
into the room. They spotted him, spun around to bring their weapons to bear¢

 And reaching up with the Force, Luke ripped one of the tapestries from the wall beside 
him and brought it down on top of them.

 It was a trick that only a Jedi could have pulled off, and it was a trick that, by all rights, 
ought to have worked. All seven of the aliens were in the room by the time he got the 
tapestry loose, and all seven were beneath it as it began its fall. But by the time it landed 
in a huge wrinkled pile on the floor, all seven had somehow managed to back completely 
out of its way.

 From behind the heap came the sharp hiss of their weapons, and Luke ducked back 
involuntarily before he realized the webbing sprays weren't coming anywhere near him. 
Instead, the misty tendrils were sweeping outward, shooting around and past the downed 
tapestry to crisscross the walls.

 His first thought was that the weapons must have gone off accidentally, jostled or 
bumped as the aliens tried to get out from under the falling tapestry. But a split second 
later he realized the truth: that they were deliberately webbing the other tapestries into 
place on the walls to prevent him from trying the same trick twice. Belatedly, Luke 
tugged at the heaped tapestry, hoping to sweep them back with it, and found that it, too, 
was now solidly webbed in place.

 The spraying ceased, and a single dark eye poked cautiously around the tapestry 
mountain... and with a strange sort of sadness, Luke realized that he no longer had any 
choices left. There was, now, only one way to end this if Han and Leia were to be saved.

 He locked his lightsaber on and let his mind relax, reaching out with Jedi senses toward 
the seven figures, forming their image in his mind's eye. The alien watching him brought 
his weapon around the edge of the tapestry¢

 And, reaching back over his left shoulder, Luke hurled his lightsaber with all his 
strength.

 The blade scythed toward the edge of the tapestry, spinning through the air like some 
strange and fiery predator. The alien saw it, reflexively ducked back¢

 And died as the lightsaber sliced through the tapestry and cut him in half.

 The others must have realized in that instant that they, too, were dead; but even then 
they didn't give up. Howling a strangely chilling wail, they attacked: four throwing 
themselves around the sides of the barrier, the other two actually leaping straight up to try 
to shoot over it.

 It made no difference. Guided by the Force, the spinning lightsaber cut through their 
ranks in a twisting curve, striking each of them in turn.

 A heartbeat later, it was all over.

 Luke took a shuddering breath. He'd done it. Not the way he'd wanted to, but he'd done 
it. Now, he could only hope he'd done it in time. Calling the lightsaber back to his hand 
on a dead run, he sprinted past the crumpled alien bodies and stretched out again through 
the Force.Leia?

  

 The decorative columns flanking the downward ramp were visible just beyond the next 
row of booths when, beside him, Han felt Leia twitch. "He's free," she said. "He's on his 
way."

 "Great," Han muttered. "Great. Let's hope our pals don't find out before he gets here."

 The words were barely out of his mouth when, in what looked like complete unison, the 
circle of aliens raised their stokhli sticks and started pushing their way through the 
milling crowd of Bimms. "Too late," Han gritted. "Here they come."

 Leia gripped his arm. "Should I try to take their weapons away from them?"

 "You'll never get all eleven," Han told her, looking around desperately for inspiration.

 His eyes fell on a nearby table loaded with jewelry display boxes... and he had it. 
Maybe. "Leia¢that jewelry over there? Grab some of it."

 He sensed her throw a startled look up at him. "What¢?"

 "Just do it!" he hissed, watching the approaching aliens. "Grab it and throw it to me."

 Out of the corner of his eye he saw one of the smaller display boxes stir as she strained 
to establish a grip on it. Then, with a sudden lurch, it leaped toward him, slapping into his 
hands and scattering small neckpieces to the ground before he managed to get hold of the 
rest.

 And abruptly the raucous conversational hum of the marketplace was split by a piercing 
shriek. Han turned toward it, just in time to see the owner of the pilfered merchandise 
stabbing two fingers toward him. "Han!" he heard Leia shout over the scream.

 "Get ready to duck!" he shouted back¢

 And was literally bowled off his feet as a yellow wave of enraged Bimms leaped atop 
him, knocking the accused shoplifter to the ground.

 And with their bodies forming a barrier between him and the stokhli sticks, he dropped 
the jewelry and grabbed for his comlink. "Chewie!" he bellowed over the din.

  

 Luke heard the shriek even from the top Tower floor; and from the sudden turmoil in 
Leia's mind, it was instantly clear that he would never make it to the marketplace in time.

 He skidded to a halt, mind racing. Across the room a large open window faced the 
open-domed structure; but five floors was too far for even a Jedi to safely leap. He 
glanced back to the room he'd just left, searching for possibilities... and his eye fell on the 
end of one of the aliens' weapons, just visible through the archway.

 It was a long shot, but it was as good a chance as he was going to get. Reaching out 
through the Force, he called the weapon flying to his hand, studying its controls as he ran 
to the window. They were simple enough: spray profile and pressure, plus the thumb 
trigger. Setting for the narrowest spray and the highest pressure, he braced himself 
against the side of the window, aimed for the marketplace's partial dome covering, and 
fired.

 The stick kicked harder against his shoulder than he'd expected it to as the spray shot 
out, but the results were all he could have hoped for. The front end of the arching tendril 
struck the roof, forming a leisurely sort of pile as more of the semisolid spray pushed 
forward to join it. Luke held the switch down for a count of five, then eased up, keeping a 
firm Force grip on the near end of the tendril to prevent it from falling away from the 
stick. He gave it a few seconds to harden before touching it tentatively with a finger, gave 
it a few seconds more to make sure it was solidly attached to the marketplace roof. Then, 
taking a deep breath, he grabbed his makeshift rope with both hands and jumped.

 A tornado of air blew at him, tugging at his hair and clothes as he swung down and 
across. Below and partway across the top level he could see the mass of yellow-clad 
Bimms and the handful of gray figures struggling to get past them to Han and Leia. There 
was a flicker of light, visible even in the bright sunshine, and one of the Bimms slumped 
to the ground¢stunned or dead, Luke couldn't tell which. The floor was rushing up at 
him¢he braced himself to land¢

 And with a roar that must have rattled windows for blocks around, theMillennium 
Falcon screamed by overhead.

 The shock wave threw Luke's landing off, sending him sprawling across the floor and 
into two of the Bimms. But even as he rolled back up to his feet, he realized that 
Chewbacca's arrival couldn't have been better timed. Barely ten meters away, the two 
alien attackers nearest him had turned their attention upward, their weapons poised to 
ensnare theFalcon when it returned. Snatching his lightsaber from his belt, Luke leaped 
over a half dozen bystanding Bimms, cutting both attackers down before they even knew 
he was there.

 From overhead came another roar; but this time Chewbacca didn't simply fly theFalcon 
past the marketplace. Instead, forward maneuvering jets blasting, he brought it to a hard 
stop. Hovering directly over his beleaguered companions, swivel blaster extended from 
the ship's underside, he opened fire.

 The Bimms weren't stupid. Whatever Han and Leia had done to stir up the hornet's nest, 
the hornets themselves clearly had no desire to get shot at from the sky. In an instant the 
roiling yellow mass dissolved, the Bimms abandoning their attack and streaming away in 
terror from theFalcon . Forcing his way through the crowd, using the Bimms for visual 
cover as much as he could, Luke started around the attackers' circle.

 Between his lightsaber and theFalcon 's swivel blaster, they made a very fast, very clean 
sweep of it.

  

 "You," Luke said with a shake of his head, "are a mess."

 "I'm sorry, Master Luke," Threepio apologized, his voice almost inaudible beneath the 
layers of hardened spraynet that covered much of his upper body like some bizarre sort of 
gift wrapping. "I seem to always be causing you trouble."

 "That's not true, and you know it," Luke soothed him, considering the small collection 
of solvents arrayed in front of him on theFalcon 's lounge table. So far none of the ones 
he'd tried had been even marginally effective against the webbing. "You've been a great 
help to all of us over the years. You just have to learn when to duck."

 Beside Luke, Artoo twittered something. "No, Captain Solo didnot tell me to duck," 
Threepio told the squat droid stiffly. "What he said was, 'Get ready to duck.' I should 
think the difference would be apparent even to you."

 Artoo beeped something else. Threepio ignored it. "Well, let's try this one," Luke 
suggested, picking up the next solvent in line. He was hunting for a clean cloth among his 
pile of rejects when Leia came into the lounge.

 "How is he?" she asked, walking over and peering at Threepio.

 "He'll be all right," Luke assured her. "He may have to stay like this until we get back to 
Coruscant, though. Han told me these stokhli sticks are used mostly by big-game hunters 
on out-of-the-way planets, and the spraynet they use is a pretty exotic mixture." He 
indicated the discarded solvent bottles.

 "Maybe the Bimms can suggest something," Leia said, picking up one of the bottles and 
looking at its label. "We'll ask them when we get back down."

 Luke frowned at her. "We're going back down?"

 She frowned at him in turn. "We have to, Luke¢you know that. This is a diplomatic 
mission, not a pleasure cruise. It's considered bad form to pull out right after one of your 
ships has just shot up a major local marketplace."

 "I would think the Bimms would consider themselves lucky that none of their people 
got killed in the process," Luke pointed out. "Particularly when what happened was at 
least partly their fault."

 "You can't blame a whole society for the actions of a few individuals," Leia said¢rather 
severely, Luke thought. "Especially not when a single political maverick has simply 
made a bad decision."

 "A baddecision ?" Luke snorted. "Isthat what they're calling it?"

 "That's what they're calling it," Leia nodded. "Apparently, the Bimm who led us into the 
marketplace trap was bribed to take us there. He had no idea what was going to happen, 
though."

 "And I suppose he had no idea what the stuff he gave the chief negotiator would do, 
either?"

 Leia shrugged. "Actually, there's still no hard evidence that he or anyone else poisoned 
the negotiator," she said. "Though under the circumstances, they're willing to concede 
that that's a possibility."

 Luke made a face. "Generous of them. What does Han have to say about us putting back 
down?"

 "Han doesn't have any choice in the matter," Leia said firmly. "This ismy mission, not 
his."

 "That's right," Han agreed, stepping into the lounge. "Your mission. Butmy ship."

 Leia stared at him, a look of disbelief on her face. "You didn't," she breathed.

 "I sure did," he told her calmly, dropping into one of the seats across the lounge. "We 
made the jump to lightspeed about two minutes ago. Next stop, Coruscant."

 "Han!" she flared, as angry as Luke had ever seen her. "I told the Bimms we were 
coming right back down."

 "And I told them there'd be a short delay," Han countered. "Like long enough for us to 
collect a squadron of X-wings or maybe a Star Cruiser to bring back with us."

 "And what if you've offended them?" Leia snapped. "Do you have anyidea how much 
groundwork went into this mission?"

 "Yeah, as it happens, I do," Han said, his voice hardening. "I also have a pretty good 
idea what could happen if our late pals with the stokhli sticks brought friends with them."

 For a long minute Leia stared at him, and Luke sensed the momentary anger fading from 
her mind. "You still shouldn't have left without consulting me first," she said.

 "You're right," Han conceded. "But I didn't want to take the time. If theydid have 
friends, those friends probably had a ship." He tried a tentative smile. "There wasn't time 
to discuss it in committee."

 Leia smiled lopsidedly in return. "I amnot a committee," she said wryly.

 And with that, the brief storm passed and the tension was gone. Someday, Luke 
promised himself, he would get around to asking one of them just what that particular 
private joke of theirs referred to. "Speaking of our pals," he said, "did either of you 
happen to ask the Bimms who or what they were?"

 "The Bimms didn't know," Leia said, shaking her head. I've certainly never seen 
anything like them before."

 "We can check the Imperial archives when we get back to Coruscant," Han said, feeling 
gingerly at one cheek where a bruise was already becoming visible. "There'll be a record 
of them somewhere."

 "Unless," Leia said quietly, "they're something the Empire round out in the Unknown 
Regions."

 Luke looked at her. "You think the Empire was behind this?"

 "Who else could it have been?" she said. "The only question is why."

 "Well, whatever the reason, they're going to be disappointed," Han told her, getting to 
his feet. "I'm going back to the cockpit, see if I can muddle our course a little more. No 
point in taking chances."

 A memory flashed through Luke's mind: Han and theFalcon , sweeping right through 
the middle of that first Death Star battle to shoot Darth Vader's fighters off his back. 
"Hard to imagine Han Solo not wanting to take chances," he commented.

 Han leveled a finger at him. "Yeah, well, before you get cocky, try to remember that the 
people I'm protecting are you, your sister, your niece, and your nephew. That make any 
difference?"

 Luke smiled. "Touche," he admitted, saluting with an imaginary lightsaber.

 "And speaking of that," Han added, "isn't it about time Leia had a lightsaber of her 
own?"

 Luke shrugged. "I can make her one anytime she's ready," he said, looking at his sister. 
"Leia?"

 Leia hesitated. "I don't know," she confessed. "I've never really felt comfortable with the 
things." She looked at Han. "But I suppose I ought to make the effort."

 "I think you should," Luke agreed. "Your talents may lie along a different direction, but 
you should still learn all the basics. As far as I can tell, nearly all the Jedi of the Old 
