"But his face only brightened with an irresistible smile. He seemed on the verge of laughing at .me, and then his shoulders began to move with this laughter. `lout Louis,' he said softly. `This is the very spirit of your age. Don't you see that? 'Everyone else feels as you feel. Your fall from grace and faith has been the fall of a century.'

"I was so stunned by this, that for a long time I sat there staring into the fire. It had all but consumed the wood and was a wasteland of smoldering ash, a gray and red landscape that would have collapsed at the touch of the poker. Yet it was very warm, and still gave off powerful light. I saw my life in complete perspective

"'And the vampires of the Theatre . . : I asked softly.

" `They reflect the age in cynicism which cannot comprehend the death of possibilities, fatuous sophisticated indulgence in the parody of the miraculous, decadence whose last refuge is self-ridicule, a mannered helplessness. You saw them; you've known them all your life. You reflect your age differently. You reflect its broken heart.'

" `This is unhappiness. Unhappiness you don't begin to understand.'

" `I don't doubt it. Tell me what you feel now, what makes you unhappy. Tell me why for a period of seven days you haven't come to me, though you were burning to come. Tell me what holds you still to Claudia and the other woman.'

"I shook my head. `You don't know what you ask. You see, it was immensely difficult for me to perform the act of making Madeleine into a vampire. I broke a promise to myself that I would never do this, that my own loneliness would never drive me to do it. I don't see our life as powers and gifts. I see it as a curse. I haven't the courage to die. But to make another vampire! To bring this suffering on another, and to condemn to death all those men and women whom that vampire must subsequently kill! I broke a grave promise. And in so doing . . '

" `But if it's any consolation to you . . . surely you realize I had a hand in it.'

" `That I did it to be free of Claudia, to be free to come to you . . . yes, I realize that. But the ultimate responsibility lies with me!' I said.

" `No. I mean, directly. I made you do it! I was near you the night you did it. I exerted my strongest power to persuade you to do it. Didn't you know this?' Woe.

"I bowed my head.

" 'I would have made this woman a vampire,' he said softly. `But I thought it best you have a hand in it. Otherwise you would not give Claudia up. You must know you wanted it. . .

" `I loathe what I did!' I said.

" `Then loathe me, not yourself.'

" `No. You don't understand. You nearly destroyed the thing you value in me when this happened! I resisted you with all my power when I didn't even know it was your force which was working on me. Something nearly died in me! Passion nearly died in me! I was all but destroyed when Madeleine was created!'

" `But that thing is no longer dead, that passion, that humanity, whatever you wish to name it. If it were not alive there wouldn't be tears in your eyes now. There wouldn't be rage in your voice,' he said.

"For the moment, I couldn't answer. I only nodded. Then I struggled to speak again. `You must never force me to do something against my will! You must never exert such power . . ' I stammered.

" `No,' he said at once. `I must not. My power stops somewhere inside you, at some threshold. There I am powerless, however . . . this creation of Madeleine is done. You are free.'

" `And you are satisfied,' I said, gaining control of myself. `I don't mean to be harsh. You have me. I love you. But I'm mystified. You're satisfied?'

" `How could I not be?' he asked. `I am satisfied, of course.'

"I stood up and went to the window. The last embers were dying. The light came from the gray sky. I heard Armand follow me to the window ledge. I could feel him beside me now, my eyes growing more and more accustomed to the luminosity of the sky, so that now I could see his profile and his eye on the falling rain. The sound of the rain was everywhere and different: flowing in the gutter along the roof, tapping the shingles, falling softly through the shimmering layers of tree branches, splattering on the sloped stone sill in front of my hands. A soft intermingling of sounds that drenched and colored all of the night.

" To you forgive me . . . for forcing you with the woman?' he asked.

" `You don't need my forgiveness'

" `You need it,' he said. `Therefore, I need it.' Ids face was as always utterly calm.

" `Will she care for Claudia? Will she endure?' I asked.

" `She is perfect. Mad; but for these days that is perfect. She will care for Claudia. She has never lived a moment of life alone; it is natural to her that she be devoted to her companions. She need not have particular reasons for loving Claudia. Yet, in addition to her needs, she does have particular reasons. Claudia's beautiful surface, Claudia's quiet, Claudia's dominance and control. They are perfect together. But I think . . . that as soon as possible they should leave Paris:

" `Why?'

" `You know why. Because Santiago and the other vampires watch them with suspicion. All the vampires have sees Madeleine. They fear her because she knows about them and they don't know her. They don't let others alone who know about them'

" `And the boy, Denis? What do you plan to do with him?'

" `He's dead,' he answered.

"I was astonished. Both at his words and his calm. `You killed him?' I gasped.

"He nodded. And said nothing. But his large, dark eyes seemed entranced with me, with the emotion, the shock I didn't try to conceal. His soft, subtle smile seemed to draw me close to him; his hand closed over mine on the wet window sill and I felt my body turning to face him, drawing nearer to him, as though I were being moved not by myself but by him. `It was best,' he conceded to me gently. And then said, `We must go now. . . : And he glanced at the street below.

" `Armand,' I said. `I can't...'

" `Louis, come after me,' he whispered. And then on the ledge, he stopped. `Been if you were to fall on the cobblestones there,' he said, `you would only be hurt for a while. You would heal so rapidly and so perfectly that in days you would show no sign of it, your bones healing as your skin heals; so let this knowledge free you to do what you can so easily do already. Climb down, now.'

" `What can kill me?' I asked.

"Again he stopped. `The destruction of your remains,' he said. `Don't you know this? Fire, dismemberment . . . the heat of the sun. Nothing else. You can be scarred, yes; but you are resilient. You are immortal.'

"I was looking down through the quiet silver rain into darkness. Then .a light flickered beneath the shifting tree limbs, and the pale beams of the light made the street appear. Wet cobblestones, the iron hook of the carriage-house bell, the vines clinging to the top off the wall. The huge black hulk of a carriage brushed the vines, and then the light grew weak, the street went from yellow to silver and vanished altogether, as if the dark trees had swallowed it up. Or, rather, as if it had all been subtracted from the dark. I felt dizzy. I felt the building move. Armand was seated on the window sill looking down at me.

" `Louis, come with me tonight,' he whispered suddenly, with an urgent inflection.

" `No,' I said gently. `It's too soon. I can't leave them yet'

"I watched him turn away and look at the dark sky. He appeared to sigh, but I didn't hear it. I felt his hand close on mine on the window sill. `Very well . . .' he said.

" `A little more time . . ' I said. And he nodded and patted my hand as if to say it was all right. Then he swung his legs over and disappeared. For only a moment I hesitated, mocked by the pounding of my heart. But then I climbed over the sill and commenced to hurry after him, never daring to look down."

"It was very near dawn when I put my key into the lock at the hotel. The gas light flared along the walls. And Madeleine, her needle and thread in her hands, had fallen asleep by the grate. Claudia stood still, looking at me from among the ferns at the window, in shadow. She had her hairbrush in her hands. Her hair was gleaming.

"I stood there absorbing some shock, as if all the sensual pleasures and confusions of these rooms were passing over me like waves and my body were being permeated with these things, so different from the spell of Armand and the tower room where we'd been. There was something comforting here, and it was disturbing. I was looking for my chair. I was sitting in it with my hands on my temples. And then I felt Claudia near me, and I felt her dips against my forehead.

" `You've been with Armand,' she said. `You want to go with him.'

"I looked up at her. How soft and beautiful her face was, and, suddenly, so much mine. I felt no compunction in yielding to my urge to touch her cheeks, to lightly touch her eyelids---familiarities, liberties I hadn't taken with her since the night of our quarrel. `I'll see you again; not here, in other places. Always I'll know where you are!' I said.

"She put her arms around my neck. She held me tight, and I closed my eyes and buried my face in her hair. I was covering her neck with my kisses. I had hold of her round, firm little arms. I was kissing them, kissing the soft indentation of the flesh in the crooks of her arms, her wrists, her open palms. I felt her forgers stroking my hair, my face. `Whatever you wish,' she vowed. `Whatever you wish.'

" `Are you happy? Do you have what you want?' I begged her.

" `Yes, Louis.' She held me against her dress, her fingers clasping the back of my neck. `I have all that I want` But do you truly know what you want?' She was lifting my face so I had to look into her eyes. `It's you I fear for, you who might be making the mistake. Why don't you leave Paris with us!' the said suddenly. `We have the world, come with us!'

" `No.' I drew back from her. `You want it to as it was with Lestat. It can't be that way again, ever. It won't be.'

" `It will be something new and different with Madoleine. I don't ask for that again. It was I who put an end to that,' she said. `But do you truly understand what you are choosing in Armand?'

"I tanned away from her. There was something stubborn and mysterious inn her dislike of him, in her failure to understand him. She would say again that he wished her death, which I did not believe. She didn't realize what I realized: he could not want her death, because I didn't want it. But how could I explain this to her without sounding pompous and blind in my love of him. `It's meant to be. It's almost that sort of direction,' I said, as if it were just coming clear to me under the pressure of her doubts. `He alone can give me the strength to be what I am. I can't continue to live divided and consumed with misery. Either I go with him, or I die,' I said. `And it's something else, which is irrational and unexplainable and which satisfies only me. . .
