Chapter 12

Obi-Wan considered retiring to his cabin, but he knew he would rather face Qui-Gon sooner than later. He suggested that Si Treemba get some rest, but the Arconan refused.

"We will face them together," Si Treemba said. drawing himself up to his full height.

They found the Jedi and Clat'Ha in the Arconans' lounge, were the lights were always turned low to simulated night and the music doids softly played Arconan flutes. Few Arconans were in the lounge so late. The few that we had their eyes closed, and stood as still as statues – the Arconan equivalent of sleep.

Qui-Gon stood at the bar, drinking some bluish juice. Clat'Ha stood near him, an untouched glass of juice sat in front of her on the bar. One look at them and Obi-Wan knew they both were aware of what had happened on the Offworld side of the ship.

"At least you're still in one piece this time," Qui-Gon said, eyeing him coldly.

"Well, did you discover anything?"

"No," Obi-Wan admitted. "Si Treemba was captured before we could find the thermocoms."

"Obi-Wan rescued us," Si Treemba praised. "we were shackled to the floor, and he stood up to Grelb the Hutt himself-"

"A man who puts himself in the path of danger deserves to face it alone," Qui-Gon said sternly.

Obviously, Obi-Wan's bravery did not impress him. Si Treemba quieted, shooting a look at Obi-Wan that said we tried.

"You deliberately disobeyed my order," Qui-Gon said evenly.

"With respect, I am not under your charge, Qui-Gon Jinn," Obi-Wan said quietly.

"As you keep reminding me."

Qui-Gon turned to him and stared for a moment. Obi-Wan couldn't read what was behind that keen blue gaze. At last, he spoke. "Your meddling has only made things worse."

"I made matters worse?" Obi-Wan asked. "What do you mean?"

"Yes, you have." Qui-Gon said. His face remained impassive, his tone neutral.

But now Obi-wan could sense his deep irritation. He had hoped to win the Jedi's respect. Instead, he was looked at as a pest, not even worth of great anger.

"You sneaked into Offworld territory, invaded their privacy, got caught, and had to fight your way out again. They will surely retaliate."

"But it was worth the risk," Obi-Wan tried. "If we had found the thermocoms –"

Clat'Ha interrupted him. "The thermocoms were found on hour ago, hidden in a barrel of lubricant. Whoever dropped them in there didn't expect them to be found."

Obi-Wan's mouth snapped shut. Qui-Gon was right. He had risked the fragile peace on the ship for nothing.

"Can't you see that this isn't about thermocoms?" Qui-Gon said, trying to keep his voice even. "A Jedi must look at the larger picture. The reason for my order was because I wanted tensions to cool. I wanted to engender trust. How can the Offworlders trust the Jedi, if they find you sneaking around their territory? How can –"

The room suddenly shook, and there was a rumbling boom. Qui-Gon's drink went sliding from the bar, and the cup crashed to the floor. Si Treemba pitched onto his belly. Warning sirens began to wail.

"What hit us?" Clat'Ha shouted.

But Obi-Wan knew that if they'd collided with another ship, or an asteroids, in hyperspace, it would have torn the ship apart. Distantly, Obi-Wan heard the whunk whunk whunk of the ship's guns firing.

Qui-Gon strode to the window. His hand rested on his lightsaber. "Pirates," he announced.

