Chapter 5

Qui-Gon Jinn could not get the sight of Obi-Wan's despairing face out of his mind. The boy had struggled not the show it, but it was written on his every feature.

Qui-Gon sat quietly in the star map room. Among all the rooms at the Temple, this was his favorite. The velvety blue ceiling curved above him in a dome.

The only light came from the stars and planets that surrounded him, pinpricks against the blue in all the glowing colors of the spectrum. He had only to reach out a hand and touch a planet for a hologram to appear, detailing its physical properties, it's surrounding satellites, and it's form of government.

Knowledge was so easily obtained here. But when it came to the heart, so much was a mystery.

Qui-Gon told himself that he had made the correct decision. The only decision.

The boy fought well, but to fiercely. There was danger there.

"The boy is not my responsibility," Qui-Gon said aloud.

"Certain are you?" Yoda asked from behind him.

Qui-Gon turned startled. "I didn't hear you," he said politely.

Yoda walked farther into the star map room. " dozen boys fought for you. If you do not choose a Padawan today, the dreams of at least one of those boys will die."

Sighing, Qui-Gon studied a bright red star. "There will be more boys next year.

Perhaps then I will choose a Padawan." In his visits to the Temple, Qui-Gon always valued his time spent with Yoda. Now he wished the Master would go away.

He did not want to discuss this. But he knew Yoda would not go away until he had made his point.

"Perhaps," Yoda agreed. "Or perhaps still reluctant, will you be. What of young Obi-Wan? Well he fought."

"He fought . . . ferociously," Qui-Gon agreed.

"Yes," Yoda said. "Like a boy I knew long ago –"

"Don't," Qui-Gon interrupted. "Xanatos is gone. I don't want to be reminded."

"Not speaking of that one," Yoda said. "Of you I spoke."

Qui-Gon didn't answer. Yoda knew him too well. He could not argue.

"Strong in the Force he is," Yoda remarked.

"And angry and reckless," Qui-Gon said, a trace of irritation beginning to edge his tone. "And likely to turn."

"Not all angry young men to the dark side turn," Yoda said calmly. "Not if a proper teacher they have."

"I will not take him, Master Yoda," Qui-Gon said evenly. He knew Yoda would hear the strong will in his words.

"Very well," Yoda said. "But by chance alone we do not live our lives. If take an apprentice you will not, then, in time, perhaps fate will choose."

"Perhaps," Qui-Gon agreed. He hesitated. "What will happen to the boy?"

"For the Agricultural Corps he will work."

Qui-Gon grunted. " farmer?" Such a waste of potential. "Tell him . . . that I wish him luck."

"Too late," Yoda said. "On his way to Bandomeer he is."

"Bandomeer?" Qui-Gon asked in surprise.

"Know the place you do?"

"Know it? The Senate has asked me to go there. You knew this, didn't you?"

Qui-Gon eyed the small Master suspiciously.

"Hmmm . . . " Yoda said. "I knew it not. But more than coincidence this is.

Strange are the ways of the Force."

"But why send the boy to Bandomeer?" Qui-Gon asked. "It's a brutal world. If the weather doesn't kill him, the predators will. He'll need all of his skills just to stay alive – never mind the Agri-Corps!"

"Yes, so the Council thought," Yoda said. "Good to grow crops Bandomeer may not be. But good place for a young Jedi the grow it is."

"If he doesn't get himself killed," Qui-Gon growled. "You must have more faith in him than I do."

"Yes my point that is," Master Yoda said, chuckling. "Listen harder you must."

With an exasperated sigh, Qui-Gon returned his attention to the stars.

"Study the stars you may, Qui-Gon," Yoda said as he left. "They have much to teach you. But will it be what you need to learn?"

