Chapter 23

Together, Obi-Wan Kenobi and Qui-Gon jinn fought side by side. The Forced pulsed between them. They knew without speaking where the other would move, when the other would strike. When Qui-Gon moved forward, Obi-Wan sprang back to protect his flank. When Obi-Wan leaped to the right, Qui-Gon made sure he was covered from the left.

Clat'Ha joined them, a blaster in each hand and a spare strapped to her leg.

Qui-Gon and Clat'Ha had worked quickly to administer the dactyl to the Arconans, and they had revived enough to stand together and fight. Si Treemba and a group of Arconans handled any draigons who dared breach the opening.

Obi-Wan's plan worked. Draigon bodies piled up at the entrance, blocking it.

Obi-Wan, Qui-Gon, and Clat'Ha left a small squad to protect it and raced to the next cave opening. Then the battle began all over again.

Before his death, Jemba had ordered the Whiphids and Hutts of Offworld Corporation to defend the cave where they had gathered. He instructed them to fire from the rocks outside the cave. It was a foolish strategy. Hundreds of miners had been slain. Finally, Obi-Wan and Qui-Gon convinced them to fight at the cave entrance and use the draigon bodies as shields.

The Offworld miners and the Jedi worked to guard the cave entrances, but draigons dug new entrances through the rock, so that at times they broke through and came at the miners from above or behind. That's where the Arconans came in handy. By evening, it was evident to every Hutt and Whiphid on that rock that the Arconans were not cowards. They were creatures born to caves and darkness, and when it came to time to fight in their own element, they proved themselves to be ferocious and cunning.

No draigon that tunneled through a cave's roof caught an Arconan by surprise.

Indeed, the Arconans were so fierce that the Whiphids and Hutts finally retreated and left them to finish the battle.

Near nightfall Obi-Wan and Qui-Gon were still battling at the last entrance to the caves. Smoke rose from the draigons' mouths as they let out their piercing cries in the dusky air. But the cries had changed from war cries to signals.

Suddenly, what was left of the flock roared and leaped into the air. The draigons circled the island twice, then flew off in defeat.

When a ragged cheer went up from the surviving Hutts and Whiphids, Obi-Wan thought that it was merely a cheer of relief. But when a huge Whiphid came out of the cave and gave him a rough pat on the back, and when Hutts actually circled him and began to clap, Obi-Wan realized that these were not cheers of relief. Their former enemies cheered for the Jedi.

And later, when he and qui-Gon went into Jemba's chamber of the cavern and took the rest of the dactyl back for the Arconans, no one tried to stop them.

 Because of Jemba's orders, over three hundred Offworld miners were killed in the battle. Eighty-seven Arconans had lost their lives. The caves filled with the Arconans' hum of mourning.

Obi-Wan lingered at the cave, watching his friend grieve with his fellow Arconans. It was time for Si Treemba to be with his people. Obi-Wan put a hand on his shoulder and pressed gently, then walked away.

The miners' work force was nearly cut in half. While the Arconans grieved, Clat'Ha made plans for their future. She went to one of Jemba's chieftains, a Hutt named Aggaba, and said, "Aggaba, I want to hire you and your people."

"Which ones?" Aggaba asked suspiciously.

"All of you," she said. "You're temporarily the head of these men, until you reach Bandomeer. I'll buy out your contracts."

"And then what?" Aggaba asked. He had a cunning look in his eyes, as if he wondered how he might make a profit.

"I'll offer all of you an invitation to work for our mining company," Clat'Ha said. "We share the profits, so it's a step up for you. Think about it. When we get to Bandomeer, your bosses there will demote you, put someone else in over your head. This is your chance to escape from Offworld Mining, get decent jobs that will pay you better now, and in the long run."

Aggaba licked his lips and stared around like a cornered Jawa. "Out contracts would not be cheap," he said. "I would want, say, two thousand per worker."

"Any money I give you," Clat'Ha countered, "would just go back to your corporate headquarters. So how about I make you a better offer. I'll give you twenty for each worker, and a personal bonus of twenty thousand just for signing with me."

Aggaba's eyes grew wide with delight. Clat'Ha hid her own glee. Aggaba would accept the deal out of greed. But the rest of the workers would have their freedom.

