  
  Elliott sighed. Another great wash of relief passing through him, but not without 
bitterness, deep bitterness." I knew it... the part about Lawrence. About Julie I never 
guessed."
  
  "With my poisons,"  Ramses sighed.
  
  "I loved Lawrence Stratford,"  Elliott whispered." He was my ... my lover, once, and 
always my friend."
  
  Ramses gave a small nod of respect.
  
  "This killing, was it easy for her? How did it come about?"
  
  "She is incalculably strong. I'm not sure she fully understands what death is. She 
killed Henry because he was firing a gun at her. Malenka she killed because the girl was 
frightened and had begun to scream. She broke the necks of these two people. The maid in 
the museum, the same."
  
  "She speaks?"
  
  "Clearly. She picks up English from me as if imbibing it. She told me who she was. But 
something's wrong with her, something profound. She does not really know where she is, or 
what's happening to her. And she suffers. She suffers unspeakably because of the great 
gaping sores on her body, through which the bones are visible. She suffers anguish and 
physical pain."  Elliott took another drink of the whisky." The damage to her body-surely 
there is similar damage to her brain."
  
  "You must take me to her immediately!"
  
  "I gave her what was left in the vial, the one you so carelessly dropped in the museum. 
I applied it to her face and her hands. But much more is needed."
  
  "You saw it work? It shrank these wounds?"
  
  "Yes. But the sunlight had already healed her enormously."
  
  Elliott paused; he studied Ramsey's seemingly impassive face, the blue eyes staring 
forward." But surely this is no mystery to you!"
  
  "You're wrong."
  
  Mechanically Ramses lifted the glass and drank.
  
  "A quarter of the vial, that's all that was left,"  Elliott said." Would it have been 
enough for me, if I had drunk it instead of giving it to her?"
  
  "I don't know."
  
  Elliott smiled bitterly.
  
  "I am not a scientist. Only a King."
  
  "Well, you have my proposition, Your Royal Highness. You give me the elixir. And in a 
quantity sufficient to resolve all doubts. And I shall give you Cleopatra, Queen of 
Egypt, to do with as you like."
  
  Ramses looked at him directly." And suppose I told you I would kill you if you did not 
tell me where she was?"
  
  "Kill me. Without the elixir I'll die anyway. Those are the only two things I think of 
now: death and the elixir. I'm not sure I can distinguish between the two any longer."  
One more glass of whisky, that was all he could handle. He drank it down and made a faint 
bitter face." Look, I'll be frank with you. I have no stomach for what I've seen today. 
But I want that potion. And all else collapses in the face of mat desire."
  
  "Yes, how well I remember. Yet it didn't for her. She chose death. To be with her 
beloved Mark Antony, though I held it out to her. That was her choice."
  
  "Then she didn't really know what death was."
  
  Ramses smiled.
  
  "In any case, that, I am certain, she doesn't remember. And if she does, I doubt she 
cares. She's alive now, suffering, struggling with her wounds, her hungers ..." He 
stopped.
  
  Ramses leaned forward." Where is she!"
  
  "Give it to me. And I will help you with her. I will do anything that I can. We won't 
be enemies, you and I. We aren't enemies now, are we?"
  
  "No, not enemies!"  Ramses whispered. His voice was soft, but his eyes were full of 
anger." But I can't give it to you. It's far too dangerous. You simply do not 
understand." 
  
  "Yet you raised her from the dead like a bloody alchemist!"  Elliott said heatedly." 
And you will give it to Julie Stratford, will you not? And your devoted friend, Samir?"
</pre>
<!--N=12400 M=12600 pt=-->
  
  Ramses didn't answer. He rested back against the wall, eyes forward again.
  
  Elliott stood up.
  
  "I'll be at Shepheard's. When you've brewed the elixir, call me there. I'll know your 
voice when you call. But be careful. Then we shall arrange another meeting."
  
  Gathering up his walking stick, he started for the door. He did not look back, hard as 
that was for him. His face was burning with shame. But this was the only feeble chance 
that remained to him, and he played it out, miserable though he was.
  
  There was a moment of fear as he walked in the dark alleyway alone. He was keenly aware 
not only of all the familiar aches and pains that plagued him, but also of the general 
weakness from which he was suffering, the premature curse of old age. Then it occurred to 
him that Ramses would follow!
  
  He stopped, listened. Not a sound in the darkness. He went on.
  
  She stood in the front room; she had not made up her mind whether or not she should 
kill this noisy bird. It was being quiet at this moment, clucking, dancing on its perch. 
And it was beautiful. If it did not scream, she would not kill it. That seemed fair 
enough.
  
  The body of the dancing girl had begun to rot. She had dragged it into the farthest 
corner of the garden and there thrown a great cloth over it; but still she could smell it.
  
  Even in the back kitchen she could smell it. But that had not stopped her from 
consuming all the food she could find. A few lemons, very sweet: a loaf of stale bread.
  
  After that she had changed into one of the other" frocks,"  to use the American's word 
for frilly dress. This one was white; she liked it because it made her skin look very 
fine and faintly golden; and it had even bigger skirts with great ruffles to hide her 
feet.
  
  The pain in her feet was bad. So was the pain in her side. If Lord Rutherford did not 
come soon, she would go out again. Though how to find him, she had no idea. It had been 
hard enough finding this house again. She had driven the American motor car to the 
outskirts of this curious part of the city where the houses were old and without colour 
or decoration, and then she had wandered through the narrow streets until she saw the 
open door. Now she was growing impatient.
  
  Suddenly she heard a knock.
  
  "Your name?"  she said in English.
  
  "Elliott, Lord Rutherford. Open for me."
  
  She opened the door at once.
  
  "I have waited a long while for you, Lord Rutherford. You have brought the elixir to 
me? You know where is the man with the blue eyes?"
  
  Lord Rutherford was startled by her English. She gave a little shrug of her shoulders 
as she closed the door." Oh, yes, your language is no puzzle to me,"  she said." In the 
streets of this city today I heard much of it and other such tongues. I learned many 
things. It's the past that's the puzzle, the world I cant remember!"  Suddenly she felt 
angry. Why was he staring at her like that!" Where is Ramses!"  she demanded. She was 
certain that that was the name of the man with the blue eyes.
  
  "I spoke with him. I told him what was needed."
  
  "Yes, Lord Rutherford."  She approached him. He backed away from her." Do you fear me?"
  
  "I don't know. I want to protect you,"  he whispered.
  
  "Ah, true. And Ramses, the blue-eyed one. Why does he not come?"  Something unpleasant, 
something very unpleasant. A dim image of Ramses backing away from her. Of Ramses 
standing many feet away from her as she cried out. Something about the venom of the snake 
and ... she was screaming, but no one could hear her! And then they pulled the black 
cover over her face. She turned away from Lord Rutherford." If I remembered nothing, it 
would be easier,"  she whispered." But I see it, and then I see it no more."  She turned 
back to him.
  
  "You have to be patient,"  Lord Rutherford said." He will come."
  
  "Patient! I don't want to be patient. I want to find him. Tell me where he is. I shall 
go to him."
  
  "I can't. That's impossible!"
  
  "Is it!"  Her voice had risen to a shriek. She saw the fear in him, she saw the ... 
what was it? He was not repelled as the others had been. No, it was something else as he 
stared at her." Tell me where to find him!"  she screamed. She took another step towards 
him, driving him towards the wall." I will tell you a secret, Lord Rutherford. You are 
weak, all of you. Strange beings! And I like killing you. It soothes my pain to watch you 
die."
  
  She rushed at him, grabbing him by the throat. She would shake the truth from him, and 
then kill him if he did not tell her. But suddenly strong hands laid hold of her, 
wrenching her backwards. For a moment she could not get her bearings; she screamed, 
blundering, and then saw the blue-eyed man standing before her. Who was this! She knew, 
ah, but it was just beyond Her grasp. Yet the word broke from her:" Ramses!"  Yes, this 
was Ramses, the blue-eyed one... She ran at him with her hands out.
  
  "Get out,"  he shouted to the other." Get away from here. Go."
  
  His throat felt like marble. She could not snap the bones! But he could not throw her 
off, either, no matter how hard he tried. Vaguely, she knew that Elliot, Lord Rutherford, 
had left the house, slamming the door behind him. And she was alone now, battling her 
nemesis, Ramses, who at another time had turned away from her; Ramses, who had hurt her. 
It didn't matter that she couldn't remember. It was like the name. She knew!
  
  Through the room they struggled and into the other. She freed her right hand only long 
enough to scratch at him with her bone-bare fingers, before he caught her wrist again. 
With all her strength she fought him, seething with rage. Then she saw his hand go up. 
She tried to duck, but the blow caught her, and she fell back on the bed. Sobbing, she 
turned and pushed her face into the pillows. She could not kill him! She could not snap 
his neck.
  
  "Damn you,"  she roared, not in the new tongue but in the old one." Evil Ramses!"  She 
spat at him as she lay there, hands drawn under her breast, gazing up at him, wishing she 
had the strength of a cat to spring at him and slice open his eyes.
  
  Why did he look at her like that? Why did he weep?
  
  "Cleopatra!"  he whispered.
  
  Her vision blurred for an instant; a load of memories so vast and heavy hovered just 
near her, ready to wipe out the moment utterly, should she give in. Dark, awful memories, 
memories of suffering she never wanted to revisit again.
  
  She sat up on the bed, looking at him, puzzling over the tender, wounded expression of 
his face.
  
  Handsome man he was; beautiful. Skin like the young ones; firm, sweet mouth. And the 
eyes, the large, translucent blue eyes. She saw him in another place, a dark place, as 
she rose up out of the abyss. He'd been bending over her saying the ancient prayer in 
Egyptian. You are, now and for always.
  
  "You did this to me,"  she whispered. She heard the glass breaking, the boards 
shattering, felt those stones under her feet. Her arms had been blackened, withered!" You 
brought me here, to these 'modern times,' and when I reached out to you, you ran from me!"
  
  Like a boy, he bit his lip; trembling, tears washing down his cheeks. Should she pity 
him in his suffering!
  
  "No, I swear it,"  he said in the old familiar Latin." Others came between us. I would 
never have left you."
  
  This was a lie. An awful lie. She had tried to rise off the couch. The poison of the 
snake was paralyzing her. Ramses! In panic, she'd called out; she could hear her own 
call. But he hadn't turned from the window. And the women around her, they pleaded with 
him. Ramses!
  
  "Liar!"  she hissed." You could have given it to me! You let me die!"
  
  "No."  He shook his head." Never."
  
  But wait. She was confusing two different crucial events. Those women. They hadn't been 
there when he said the prayers. She'd been alone ... forever and ever." I'd been 
sleeping, in a dark place. And then you came. And I felt pain again. Pain and hunger, and 
I knew you. I knew who you were! And I hated you!"
  
  "Cleopatra!"  He came towards her.
  
  "No, stay back. I know what you've done! I knew it before. You've brought me back from 
the dead!"  she whispered." That's what you've done. From the grave, you raised me. And 
this is the evidence of it, these wounds!"  Her voice had almost dried in her throat from 
pure bitterness. Then she felt the scream coming; she gasped, unable to hold it off.
  
  He grabbed her by the arms, shook her.
  
  "Let me go!"  she cried. Calm now. No scream.
  
  For a moment, he held on to her and she allowed it; after all, fighting him was 
useless. But then she smiled slowly. The thing was to use her wits. To understand all 
this once and for all.
  
  "Oh, but you are very handsome, aren't you?"  she said." Were you always so beautiful? 
When I knew you before, we made love, didn't we?"  She lifted her fingers and touched his 
lip. "I like your mouth. I like the mouths of men. Women's mouths are too soft. I like 
the silkiness of your skin."
  
  Slowly she kissed him. Before it had happened; before it had been so heated that all 
other men had meant nothing to her. If only he had given her the freedom, the patience, 
she would have always renamed to him; why hadn't he understood? She had to live and 
breathe as the Queen of Egypt. Hmmmmm, kissing him, hot as it had been then,
  
  "Don't stop,"  she moaned.
  
  "Is it you?"  he said. Such pain in his voice." Is it really you?"
  
  She smiled again. That was the horror, wasn't it? She didn't know the answer herself! 
She laughed. Ah, it was very funny. She threw back her head laughing, and she felt his 
lips on her throat.
  
  "Yes, kiss me, take me,"  she said. His mourn moved down her throat, his fingers 
opening her dress, his mouth closing on her nipple." Aaaaah!"  She could scarcely stand 
it, the searing pleasure of it. He held her captive suddenly, his mouth clamped to her, 
tongue stroking the nipple, pulling on her with the ferocity of a suckling child.
  
  Love you? I've always loved you. But how can I leave my world? How can I leave behind 
everything that I cherish? You speak of immortality. I can't grasp such a thing. I know 
only that here I am Queen, and you 're moving away from me, threatening to leave me 
forever...
  
  She pulled away from him. "Please,"  she begged him. Where and when had she spoken 
those words?
  
</pre>
<!--N=12600 M=12800 pt=-->
  "What is it?"  he said.
  
  "I don't know ... I can't ... I see things and then they vanish!"
  
  "There's so much I must tell you, so much to be revealed. If only you'll try to 
understand."
  
  She struggled to her feet and walked away from him. Then looking down, she ripped off 
the dress, tore the fabric of the skirt to its hem. Pulling it back, she pivoted and 
faced him.
  
  "Yes! Cast your blue eyes on what you've done! This is what I understand!"  She touched 
the wound in her side." I was a Queen. And now I am this horror. What is this that you 
brought back to life with your mysterious elixir! Your medicine!"
  
  She lowered her head slowly, hands up once more to her temples. A thousand times she 
did it, but it didn't stop the pain inside her mind. Moaning, she rocked back and forth. 
Her moaning was like a singing. Did that soothe the pain? She hummed with her lips 
sealed, that strange soft song," Celeste Aida."
  
  Then she felt his hand on her shoulder. He was turning her around. Like waking it was 
to look up at him. Handsome Ramses.
  
  Only slowly did she lower her eyes and see the shining vial in his hand.
  
  "Ah!"  She seized it and went to pour its contents into her cupped palm.
  
  "No, drink it!"
  
  She hesitated. But he had poured it into her mouth, she remembered. Yes, down her 
throat in the blackness.
  
  With his left hand, he grabbed the back of her head, and with his right he lifted the 
vial to her lips.
  
  "Drink it down."
  
  She did. Gulp after gulp and it was gone into her. The light brightened in the room 
around her. A great lovely vibration shook her from the roots of her hair to her toes. 
The tingling in her eyes was almost unbearable. She closed her eyes, and then opened them 
and saw him staring at her in astonishment. He whispered the word" Blue."
  
  But the wounds, were they healing! She held up her fingers. The itching tingling 
sensation was tantalizing. The flesh was covering the bone. And her side, yes, closing.
  
  "Oh, ye gods, thank you. Thank the gods!"  she sobbed." I am whole, Ramses, I am whole."
  
  Once again his hands stroked her, sending the chills through her. She let him kiss her, 
let him pull off the torn clothes."  Suckle me, hold me,"  she whispered. On the tingling 
flesh where the wound had been he kissed her, his mouth open, his tongue licking her. As 
he kissed the moist hair between her legs, she pulled him upwards." No, into me. Fill 
me!"  she cried." I am whole."
  
  His sex jutted against her. He lifted her and thrust her down on it; ah, yes, nothing 
remembered now, nothing but the flesh; she went limp in ecstasy, her head thrown back, 
her eyes closed.
  
  Defeated, he dragged his left foot like a cripple, drawing ever closer to the hotel. 
Had he been a coward to leave? Should he have stayed, struggling to be of assistance in 
that war between Titans? With malice in his eyes, Ramsey had said, Go. And Ramsey had 
saved his life by intervening; by following him, by making a joke of his last feeble 
attempt to get the elixir of life. Ah, what did it matter now? He must somehow get Alex 
out of Egypt; get himself out of Egypt. Wake from this nightmare once and for all and 
completely. That was the only thing left for him to do.
  
  He approached the front steps of Shepheard's, eyes down.
  
  And he did not see the two men who stopped him until they were blocking his path.
  
  "Lord Rutherford?"
  
  "Let me alone."
  
  "Sorry, my lord, I wish I could. We're from the governor's office. There are some 
questions we must ask you."
  
  Ah, the last humiliation. He did not fight.
  
  "Help me up the steps, then, young man,"  he said.
  
  She stepped out of the copper bathtub, the long coarse white towel around her, her hair 
still damp and curling in the steam. It was a bath for a palace, this room of painted 
tiles, and hot water running through a tiny pipe. And the perfumes she had found; how 
sweet the scent, like crushed lilies.
  
  She walked back into the bedroom and saw herself again in the mirrored cabinet door. 
Whole. Perfect. Her legs had their proper contour. Even the pain inside her, where the 
evil one called Henry had wounded her, that was no more.
  
  Blue eyes! How the sight shocked her.
  
  Had she been this beautiful when she was alive? Did he know? Men had always said she 
was beautiful. She did a little dance, loving her own nakedness, enjoying the softness of 
her own hair against the backs of her arms.
  
  Ramses watched her sullenly from the corner. Well, that was nothing out of the 
ordinary, was it? Ramses, the secret watcher. Ramses, the judge.
  
  She reached out for the wine bottle on the dressing table. Empty. She smashed it on the 
marble top. Bits and pieces of glass fell to the floor.
  
  No response from him; only that hard unyielding gaze.
  
  So what did it matter? Why not go on dancing? She knew that she was beautiful, that men 
would love her. The two men she'd killed this afternoon had been charmed by her, and now 
there was no dreadful secret evidence of death to hide.
  
  Pivoting, letting her hair fly about her, she cried out:" Whole! Alive and whole."
  
  From the other room came the sudden frantic cry of that parrot, that evil bird. Now was 
the time to kill it, a sacrifice to
  
  her happiness, like buying a white dove in the marketplace and letting it go in thanks 
to the gods.
  
  She went to the cage, opened the little door and thrust her hand inside, catching the 
fluttering, screeching thing at once.
  
  She killed it by pressing her fingers together. Then shook out her hand and watched it 
drop to the floor of the cage.
  
  Turning, she looked at Ramses. Ah, such a sad face, so full of disapproval! Poor 
dearest!
  
  "I can't die now. Isn't that true?"
  
  No answer. Ah, but she knew. She'd been pondering ever since ... ever since all of this 
began. When she looked at the others, it had been the realization hovering in the back of 
her mind. He'd raised her from the dead. Now she couldn't die.
  
  "Oh, how disconsolate you look. Aren't you pleased with your magic?"  She came towards 
him, laughing under her breath." Am I not beautiful? And now you weep. What a fool you 
are! It was all your design, wasn't it? You came into my tomb; you brought me back; and 
now you weep as if I were dead. Well, you turned away from me when I was dying! You let 
them pull the shroud over my face!"
  
  He sighed." No. I never did that. You don't remember what happened."
  
  "Why did you do it? Why did you bring me back? What were we to each other, you and I?"  
How did all these little shimmering bits and pieces of memory fit together? When would 
they make one cloth?
  
  She drew closer, peering at his skin, touching it again. Such resilient skin.
  
  "Don't you know the answer?"  he asked." Isn't it deep inside you?"
  
  "I know only that you were there when I died. You were someone I loved. I remember. You 
were there and I was frightened. The poison from the snake had paralyzed me, and I wanted 
to cry out to you, but I couldn't- I struggled. I said your name. You turned your back."
  
  "No! No, that could not have happened! I stood there watching you."
  
  The women weeping, she heard it again. Move away from that room full of death, the room 
where Antony had died, beloved Antony. She wouldn't let them take the couch away, though 
the blood from his wounds had soaked into the silk.
  
  "You let me die."
  
  He look her by the arms again, roughly. Was that always his way?
  
  "I wanted you to be with me, the way you are now."
  
  "As I am now. And how is that? What is this world? Is it the Hades of myth? Will we 
come upon the others ... upon ..."  But it had been right there a moment ago." Upon 
Antony!"  she said." Where is Antony!"  Oh ... but she knew.
  
  She turned away. Antony was dead and gone; laid in the tomb. And he would not give the 
magic to Antony; it was all there again.
  
  He came up behind her, and embraced her.
  
  "When you called out to me,"  he said," what was it you wanted? Tell me now."
  
  "To make you suffer!"  She laughed. She could see him in the mirrored door of the 
cabinet, and she laughed at the pain in his face." I don't know why I called out to you! 
I don't even know who you are!"  She slapped him suddenly. No effect. Like slapping 
marble.
  
  She wandered away from him into the dressing room. She wanted something beautiful. What 
was the finest dress that miserable woman had possessed? Ah, this one of rose-colored 
silk with fragile cutwork trimming. She took it up, slipped her arms into it and quickly 
snapped the little hooks up the front. It flattered her breasts beautifully; and the 
skirt was full and beautiful, though she no longer had to hide her feet.
  
  Once again she put on the sandals.
  
  "Where are you going?"
  
  "Out in the city. This is the city of Cairo. Why should I not go out into it?"
  
  "I must talk to you. ..."
  
  "Must you?"  She gathered up her canvas bag. In the corner of her eye she could see a 
great sliver of broken glass on the marble dressing table top. A shard from the bottle 
she'd smashed.
  
  She moved lazily towards it. Her hand played with the pearls there. She should take 
these too. Of course he followed her.
  
  "Cleopatra, look at me,"  he said.
</pre>
<!--N=12800 M=13000 pt=-->
  
  She turned abruptly and kissed him. Could he be so easily fooled? Yes, his lips told 
her that, oh, so delicious. How splendidly he suffered! Groping blindly at her side, she 
found that shard and, lifting it, gashed his throat.
  
  She stepped backwards. He stood staring at her. The blood poured down his white robe. 
But he wasn't afraid. He did not move to stop the bleeding. His face showed only sadness, 
not fear.
  
  "I cannot die either,"  he whispered softly.
  
  "Ah!"  She smiled. "Did someone wake you from the grave?"
  
  Again she rushed at him, kicking at him, clawing at his eyes.
  
  "Stop, I beg you."
  
  She raised her knee, jamming him hard between his legs. That pain he felt, oh, yes. He 
doubled over with it, and she kicked him hard in the side of the head.
  
  Through the courtyard she raced, gripping the canvas bag with her left hand, as with 
her right she reached for the top of the wall. In a second she was over it and racing 
through the narrow unlighted street.
  
  Within minutes she reached the motorcar. Instantly she turned on the engine, gave it 
fuel with a stab of the pedal and roared out of the small alleyway and onto the main road.
  
  Ah, the wind in her face again; the freedom; and the power of this great iron beast at 
her command.
  
  "Take me to the bright lights of British Cairo,"  she said," dear sweet little beast. 
Yes!"
  
  HE FRONT lounge at Shepheard's. Good gin from the bar, with plenty of ice and just a 
little lemon. He was grateful mat they had allowed him that. What a drunkard he had 
become. A lovely realization came over him. When he got back to England, he was going to 
drink himself to death.
  
  But would they never stop? Surely they had realized he would tell them nothing. They 
looked like mannequins to him, their mouths jerking as if worked by wires. Every gesture 
seemed artificial. Even the handsome little boy who came in and out with the ice and the 
gin appeared to be acting. All of it false. Grotesque the figures moving past in the 
lobby; and the music drifting from the bars and the ballroom, why, it sounded like what 
they might be playing tonight in hell.
  
  Sometimes the words they said made no sense. He knew the definition of each word, but 
what was the meaning? Dead men with their necks broken. Had she done it in the short tune 
that he had absented himself?
  
  "I'm tired, gentlemen,"  he said finally." The heat here does not agree with me. I took 
a bad fall today. I need my rest now. You must allow me to go to my room."
  
  The two men looked at each other. Mock frustration. Nothing was real here. What was 
real? Cleopatra's hands closing on his throat; the white-draped figure behind her, 
catching hold of her?
  
  "Lord Rutherford, we are now dealing with several murders!
  
  Clearly, the stabbing in London was only the beginning. Now we must ask for your full 
cooperation. These two young men murdered this afternoon. ..."
  
  "I have told you. I know nothing about it! What is it you want from me, young man, that 
I spin fancies for you? This is absurd."
  
  "Henry Stratford. Do you know where we can find him? He was here at Shepheard's to see 
you two days ago."
  
  "Henry Stratford frequents the worst parts of Cairo. He walks dark streets alone at 
night. I don't know where he is, God help him. Now, I really must go."
  
  He rose from his chair. Where was that damned walking stick now?
  
  "Do not attempt to leave Cairo, sir,"  said the young one, the arrogant one, the one 
with the pinched nose." We have your passport."
  
  "You what! That's outrageous,"  Elliott whispered.
  
  "I'm afraid the same applies to your son. And to Miss Stratford. I've already collected 
their passports from the desk as well. Lord Rutherford, we must get to the bottom of 
this."
  
  "You idiot,"  Elliott said." I'm a British citizen! You dare do this to me!"
  
  The other man stepped in.
  
  "My lord, let me speak to you candidly! I know of your close relationship with the 
Stratford family, but do you think Henry Stratford could be connected to these killings? 
He knew this man in London, the one who was stabbed. As for the American found out at the 
pyramids, the fellow had been robbed of quite a good deal of money. Now we know Stratford 
had his ups and downs with regard to money."
  
  Elliott held his gaze without speaking. Pinning it on Henry. That had not occurred to 
him. Oh, but it was obvious! Pinning it all on Henry, of course. And Henry knew the 
fellow in London. What luck. What supremely marvellous luck. He eyed the two gentlemen 
who stood now before him, awkwardly. What if this could work!
  
  "My lord, there's even more to it than that. We have two mysterious thefts as well. Not 
only the mummy stolen from the Cairo museum; but it seems the mummy's been stolen from 
Miss Stratford's house in Mayfair too."
  
  "Really."
  
  "And a bit of priceless Egyptian jewelry was found in the possession of Henry 
Stratford's mistress, a Daisy Banker, a music hall singer. ..."
  
  "Yes..."  Elliott eased back down into his chair.
  
  "Well, what I'm driving at, my lord, is perhaps Stratford was involved in something, 
you know, some sort of smuggling arrangement ... the jewelry and the coins and the 
mummies. ..."
  
  "Mummies ... Henry and mummies ..."  Oh, it was too beautiful, and Henry, poor Henry, 
who had murdered Lawrence, was floating in the bitumen right now. He would begin to 
laugh, thinly, hysterically, if he weighed it all too deeply.
  
  "You see, Lord Rutherford, we might be looking for the wrong man."
  
  "But then what was Ramsey doing at the museum?"  said the younger official a bit 
impatiently.
  
  "Trying to stop Henry,"  Elliott murmured." He must have followed him. He was desperate 
to talk to Henry, for Julie's sake. Of course."
  
  "But how do we explain the coins!"  asked the young man, getting a little steamed now." 
We found seven gold Cleopatra coins in Ramsey's room."
  
  "But that's obvious,"  said Elliott, looking up, the light just dawning." He must have 
taken them away from Henry when they quarreled. He knew what Henry was up to. He must 
have been trying to stop it. Of course."
  
  "But none of this makes sense!"  said the younger man.
  
  "Well, it makes a hell of a lot more sense now than it did before,"  Elliott said." 
Poor Henry, poormad, doomed Henry."
  
  "Yes, I'm beginning to see a pattern,"  said the old man.
  
  "You are?"  Elliott said." But of course you are. Now, if you'll allow me, I want to 
consult a lawyer. I want my passport back! I presume I may still consult a lawyer? That 
privilege of British citizenship has not been revoked?"
  
  "By all means, Lord Rutherford,"  said the older man." What could make young Stratford 
run amok like that?"
  
  "Gambling, old man. Gambling. It's an addiction. It destroyed his life."
  
  Whole, alive, and a madwoman! Madder than she'd been before he gave it to her. That is 
what his elixir had accomplished. Ah, the fruits of his genius. And how could this 
nightmare conceivably end?
  
  Back and forth through the honeycombed streets of old Cairo he searched. She had 
vanished. How could he hope to find her until she gave him some sign?
  
  Had he never gone into the dark shadowy corridors of the Cairo Museum, he would never 
have gazed on her neglected remains; a different path would have been taken into the 
future. With Julie Stratford at his side, all the world might have been his.
  
  But he was linked now forever to the monster he'd created, dragging through time with 
her die suffering he'd sought to put to rest; the mad creature who could remember only 
the hatred she'd once known for him, and none of the love. Ah, but what then had he 
expected? That in this new and shining age, a great spiritual transformation would be 
worked upon her ancient soul?
  
  What if Julie was right, and that soul was not even the soul of Cleopatra! What if the 
thing was a horrid twin!
  
  The fact was, he didn't know. When he'd held her in his arms, he'd known only that this 
was the flesh he had once cherished; this was the voice that had spoken to him both in 
anger and in love; this was the woman who had broken him finally; and taken her own life 
rather than the elixir-who now taunted him with a fragment of memory, that she'd cried 
out to him in her dying moments centuries ago; or tried to; and he had not heard her last 
plea. He loved her, just as he loved Julie Stratford. He loved them both!
  
  On he walked, faster and faster, out of the strange eerie quiet of old Cairo and back 
towards the bustle of the new city. All he could do was continue to search. And what clue 
would she give him finally? Another senseless killing; and that murder too would be 
blamed on the man known as Reginald Ramsey and it would drive another sword through 
Julie's heart.
  
  But there was little chance that Julie would ever forgive him now. He had hopelessly 
compounded his folly, and she had expected greater wisdom from him, greater courage. And 
he had been a man standing in that little house, a man staring at the suffering image of 
his lost love.
  
  And so he had sacrificed a finer, stronger love for a passion that had enslaved him 
centuries ago. He no longer deserved that finer lover, and he knew it. Yet he wanted it, 
lusted for it; just as he lusted for the doomed one whom he must somehow control or 
somehow destroy.
  
  All consolation was now quite beyond his reach.
  
  * * *
  
  Now there were gorgeous garments, dresses she could love, for they had the old softness 
to them and the old simplicity, and they were threaded through and through with silver 
and gold.
  
  She came up to the brightly lighted window, and placed her hand on it. She read the 
sign in English:
  
</pre>
<!--N=13000 M=13200 pt=-->
  ONLY THE FINEST FOR THE OPERA BALL
  
  Yes, she required the finest. And there was plenty of money in this bag. She needed 
shoes like that, high shoes with daggers for heels. And jewels as well.
  
  She went to the door and tapped. A tall woman with silver hair came to answer.
  
  "We're about to close, my dear. I'm sorry, if you come back ..."
  
  "Please, that dress!"  she said. She opened the bag and withdrew a great handful of the 
money. A few pieces of it fluttered out and down to the ground.
  
  "My dear, you mustn't display that much money at this time of night,"  the woman said 
to her. She bent down and gathered up the loose pieces." Come inside. Are you all alone?"
  
  Oh, but it was quite lovely in here; she touched the rich fabric of the small gilded 
chair. And behold, more of the statues she'd seen in the window, and these were decked 
not only with rich flowing silks, but furs as well. The long strip of white fur in 
particular attracted her.
  
  "I want this,"  she said.
  
  "Of course, my dear, of course,"  said the proprietress.
  
  She flashed her sweetest smile at the baffled woman." Is this ... is this ... for the 
opera ball?"  she asked.
  
  "Oh, it would be perfectly lovely! I shall wrap it for you."
  
  "Ah, but I need a gown, you see, and those slippers, and I need pearls and rubies, if 
you have them, for you see, I have lost all my finery, I have lost my jewels."
  
  "We shall take care of you! Please be seated. Now, what would you like to see in your 
size?"
  
  It was going to work. It was an absurd story: Henry breaking into the Museum of 
Antiquities to steal a mummy in order to pay his debts. But the simple fact was-and he 
must remember this-the truth was even more absurd! No one would believe the truth at all.
  
  He rang his old friend Pitfield as soon as he reached the suite.
  
  "Tell him it's Elliott Rutherford, I'll hold on for him. Ah, Gerald. I'm sorry to 
interrupt your dinner. It seems I'm in a bit of legal trouble here. I think Henry 
Stratford's mixed up in it. Yes. Yes, this evening if you could. I'm at Shepheard's, of 
course. Ah, wonderful, Gerald. I knew I could count on you. Twenty minutes from now. In 
the bar."
  
  He looked up to see Alex coming through the door as he put down the phone.
  
  "Father, thank God you're back. They've confiscated our passports! Julie is frantic. 
And Miles has just been at her with another wild story. Some poor American murdered at 
the pyramids, and an English fellow killed outside the International Cafe."
  
  "Alex, pack your trunk,"  he said." I've already heard that whole story. Gerald 
Pitfield's on his way over. He'll have your passports back for you before morning, I 
promise, and then you and Julie are to be on the train."
  
  "You'll have to tell her that, Father."
  
  "I will, but right now I have to see Pitfield. Give me your arm, and help me to the 
lift."
  
  "But, Father, who is responsible ... ?"
  
  "Son, I don't want to be the one to tell you. And certainly not the one to tell Julie. 
But it looks as if Henry may be deeply involved."
  
  Quiet up here. One could scarcely hear the music from the lighted windows below. She 
had crept up the stairs all alone, wanting only to see the stars, and be away from the 
unwelcome knocks and the unwelcome jangling of the phone.
  
  And there was Samir, standing there at the edge of the roof, looking out over the 
minarets and the domes, and the myriad little rooftops of Cairo. Samir, looking up at the 
heavens as if he were in prayer.
  
  He slipped his arm around her as she approached.
  
  "Samir, where is he?"  she whispered.
  
  "He will send word to us, Julie. He will not break his promise."
  
  This had been an exquisite choice: pale green" satin"  with rows of pearl" buttons"  
and layers of" Brussels lace."  And the loose fur wrap looked quite becoming, said the 
woman, and the woman should know, should she not?
  
  "Your hair, so beautiful, it seems quite a sin to tie it up, but my dear, you really 
should, you know. It looks rather ... Perhaps tomorrow I can make an appointment for you 
with a hairdresser."
  
  Of course she was right. The other women all had hair upswept, off the neck, not unlike 
the manner in which she'd worn hers always before this, except their coifs were shaped in 
a different way, more like a great heart with fancy curls. Yes, she would like this 
hairdresser.
  
  "Especially for the opera ball!"  Indeed. And the gown for the opera ball was a lovely 
creation, too, now hidden safely in a bundle of stiff and shining paper. And so were all 
the other things-the pretty lace" knickers"  and the flimsy" underskirts"  and the 
countless dresses, and shoes and hats, and various trifles she could no longer now 
remember. Lace handkerchiefs, scarves, and a white parasol for carrying in the sun! What 
delightful nonsense. It had been like walking into a great dressing closet. What were 
modern times that such things were everywhere ready made for the body?
  
  The proprietress had almost finished her sums, as she called them. She had counted out 
many" bills"  from the money. And now she opened the drawer of a big bronze machine, the" 
cash register,"  and there was much more money, more money by far than Cleopatra 
possessed.
  
  "I must say you look stunning in that colour!"  said the woman." It makes your eyes 
change from blue to green."
  
  Cleopatra laughed. Heaps of money.
  
  She rose from the chair, and walked delicately towards the woman, rather liking the 
clicking sound of these high heels on the marble floor.
  
  She took hold of the woman's throat before the poor creature so much as looked up. She 
tightened her grip, pressing her thumb right on the tender bone in the middle. The woman 
appeared astonished. She gave a little hiccuping noise. Then Cleopatra lifted her right 
hand and carefully twisted the woman's head hard to the left. Snap. Dead.
  
  No need now to reflect upon it, to ponder the great gulf that existed between her and 
this poor sad being who lay now on the
  
  floor behind her little table, staring up at the gilded ceiling. All of these beings 
were for killing when it was wanted, and what could they possibly do to her?
  
  She scooped the money into the new satin evening bag she had found here. What would not 
fit she put into the old canvas bag. She took also all the jewels left in the case 
beneath the" cash register."  Then she piled the boxes one atop another until she had a 
mountainous stack of them; and she carried them out and heaved them into the rear seat of 
the car.
  
  Off now, to the next adventure. Throwing the long thick tails of the white fur over her 
