  "Don't touch that!"  Lawrence said crossly." It's poison, you imbecile. They're all 
full of poisons. One pinch and you'll be as dead as he is. That is, if he's truly dead."  
Even the sight of his nephew made him angry. And at a time such as this...
  
  Lawrence turned back to the mummy. Why, even the hands seemed fuller. And one of the 
rings had almost broken through the wrapping. Only hours ago...
  
  "Poisons?"  Henry asked behind him.
  
  "It's a veritable laboratory of poisons,"  Lawrence answered." The very poisons 
Cleopatra tried, before her suicide, upon her helpless slaves!"  But why waste this 
precious information on Henry?
  
  "How incredibly quaint,"  his nephew answered. Cynical, sarcastic." I thought she was 
bitten by an asp."
  
  "You're an idiot, Henry. You know less history than an Egyptian camel driver. Cleopatra 
tried a hundred poisons before she settled on the snake."
  
  He turned and watched coldly as his nephew touched the marble bust of Cleopatra, his 
fingers passing roughly over the nose, the eyes.
  
  "Well, I fancy this is worth a small fortune, anyway. And these coins. You aren't going 
to give these things to the British Museum, are you?"
  
  Lawrence sat down in the camp chair. He dipped the pen. Where had he stopped in his 
translation? Impossible to concentrate with these distractions.
  
  "Is money all you think about?"  he asked coldly." And what have you ever done with it 
but gamble it away?"  He looked up at his nephew. When had the youthful fire died in that 
handsome face? When had arrogance hardened it, and aged it; and made it so deadly dull?" 
The more I give you, the more you lose at the tables. Go back to London, for the love of 
heaven. Go back to your mistress and your music hall cronies. But get out."
  
  There was a sharp noise from outside-another motor car backfiring as it ground its way 
up the sandy road. A dark-faced servant in soiled clothes entered suddenly, with a full 
breakfast tray in his hands. Samir came behind him.
  
  "I cannot hold them back much longer, Lawrence,"  Samir said. With a small graceful 
gesture, he bid the servant set down the breakfast on the edge of the portable desk." The 
men from the British embassy are here also, Lawrence. So is every reporter from 
Alexandria to Cairo. It is quite a circus out there, I fear."
  
  Lawrence stared at the silver dishes, the china cups. He wanted nothing now but to be 
alone with his treasures.
  
  "Oh, just keep them out as long as you can, Samir. Give me a few more hours alone with 
these scrolls. Samir, the story is so sad, so poignant."
  
  "I'll do my best,"  Samir answered." But do take breakfast, Lawrence. You're exhausted. 
You need nourishment and rest."
  
  "Samir, I've never been better. Keep them out of here till noon. Oh, and take Henry 
with you. Henry, go with Samir. He'll see that you have something to eat."
  
  "Yes, do come with me, sir, please,"  Samir said quickly.
  
  "I have to speak to my uncle alone."
  
  Lawrence looked back at his notebook. And the scroll opened above it. Yes, the King had 
been talking of his grief after, that he had retreated here to a secret study far away 
from Cleopatra's mausoleum in Alexandria, far away from the Valley of the Kings.
  
  "Uncle,"  Henry said frostily," I'd be more than happy to go back to London if you 
would only take a moment to sign ..."
  
  Lawrence refused to look up from the papyrus. Maybe there would be some clue as to 
where Cleopatra's mausoleum had once stood.
  
  " How many times must I say it?"  he murmured indifferently." No. I will sign no 
papers. Now take your briefcase with you and get out of my sight."
  
  "Uncle, the Earl wants an answer regarding Julie and Alex. He won't wait forever. And 
as for these papers, it's only a matter of a few shares."
  
  The Earl ... Alex and Julie. It was monstrous." Good God, at a time like this!"
  
  "Uncle, the world hasn't stopped turning on account of your discovery."  Such acid in 
the tone." And the stock has to be liquidated."
  
  Lawrence laid down die pen." No, it doesn't,"  he said, eyeing Henry coldly." And as 
for the marriage, it can wait forever. Or until Julie decides for herself. Go home and 
tell that to my good friend the Earl of Rutherford! And tell your father I will liquidate 
no further family stock. Now leave me alone."
  
  Henry didn't move. He shifted the briefcase uneasily, his face tightening as he stared 
down at his uncle.
  
  "Uncle, you don't realize-"
  
  "Allow me to tell you what I do realize,"  Lawrence said," that you have gambled away a 
king's ransom and that your father will go to any lengths to cover your debts. Even 
Cleopatra and her drunken lover Mark Antony could not have squandered the fortune that 
has slipped through your hands. And what does Julie need with the Rutherford title 
anyway? Alex needs the Stratford millions, that's the truth of it. Alex is a beggar with 
a title the same as Elliott. God forgive me. It's the truth."
  
  "Uncle, Alex could buy any heiress in London with that title."
  
  "Then why doesn't he?"
  
  "One word from you and Julie would make up her mind-"
  
  "And Elliott would show his gratitude to you for arranging things, is that it? And with 
my daughter's money he'd be very generous indeed."
  
  Henry was white with anger.
  
  "What the hell do you care about this marriage?"  Lawrence asked bitterly." You 
humiliate yourself because you need the money. ..."
  
  He thought he saw his nephew's lips move in a curse.
  
  He turned back to the mummy, trying to shut it ah1 out-the tentacles of the London life 
he'd left behind trying to reach him here.
  
  Why, the whole figure looked fuller! And the ring, it was plainly visible now as if the 
finger, fleshing out, had burst the wrappings altogether. Lawrence fancied he could see 
the faint color of healthy flesh.
  
  "You're losing your mind,"  he whispered to himself. And that sound, there it was 
again. He tried to listen for it; but his concentration only made him all the more 
conscious of the noise outside. He drew closer to the body in the coffin. Good Lord, was 
that hair he saw beneath the wrappings about die head?" I feel so sorry for you, Henry,"  
he whispered suddenly." That you can't savour such a discovery. This ancient King, this 
mystery."  Who said that he couldn't touch the remains? Just move perhaps an inch of the 
rotted linen?
  
  He drew out his penknife and held it uncertainly. Twenty years ago he might have cut 
the thing open. There wouldn't have been any busybody officials to deal with. He might 
have seen for himself if under all that dust-
  
  "I wouldn't do that if I were you, Uncle,"  Henry interrupted." The museum people in 
London will raise the roof."
  
  "I told you to get out."
  
  He heard Henry pour a cup of coffee as if he had all the time in the world. The aroma 
filled the close little chamber.
  
  Lawrence backed into the camp chair, and again pressed his folded handkerchief to his 
brow. Twenty-four hours now without sleep. Maybe he should rest.
  
  "Drink your coffee, Uncle Lawrence,"  Henry said to him." I poured it for you."  And 
there it was, the full cup." They're waiting for you out there. You're exhausted."
  
  "You bloody fool,"  Lawrence whispered." I wish you'd go away."
  
  Henry set the cup before him, right by die notebook.
  
  "Careful, that papyrus is priceless."
  
  The coffee did look inviting, even if Henry was pushing it at him. He lifted the cup, 
took a deep swallow, and closed his eyes.
  
  What had he just seen as he put down the cup? The mummy stirring in the sunlight? 
Impossible. Suddenly a burning sensation in his throat blotted out everything else. It 
was as if his throat were closing! He couldn't breathe or speak.
  
  He tried to rise; he was staring at Henry; and suddenly he caught the smell coming from 
the cup still in his trembling hand. Bitter almonds. It Was the poison. The cup was 
falling; dimly he heard it shatter as it hit the stone floor.
  
  "For the love of God! You bastard!"  He was falling; his hands out towards his nephew, 
who stood white-faced and grim, staring coldly at him as if this catastrophe were not 
happening; as if he were not dying.
  
  His body convulsed. Violently, he turned away. The last thing he saw as he fell was the 
mummy in the dazzling sunlight; the last ming he felt was the sandy floor beneath his 
burning face. For a long moment Henry Stratford did not move. He stared down at the body 
of his uncle as if he did not quite believe what he saw. Someone else had done this. 
Someone else had broken through the thick membrane of frustration and put this horrid 
plot into motion. Someone else had put the silver coffee spoon into the jar of ancient 
poison and slipped that poison into Lawrence's cup.
  
  Nothing moved in the dusty sunlight. The tiniest particles seemed suspended in the hot 
air. Only a faint sound originated within the chamber; something like the beat of a heart.
  
  Imaginings. It was imperative to follow through. It was imperative to stop his hand 
from shaking; to prevent the scream from ever leaving his lips. Because it was there all 
</pre>
<!--N=1000 M=1200 pt=-->
right-a scream which once released would never stop.
  
  I killed him. / poisoned him.
  
  And now that great hideous and immovable obstacle to my plan is no more.
  
  Bend down; feel the vein. Yes, he's dead. Quite dead.
  
  Henry straightened, fighting a sudden wave of nausea, and quickly took several papers 
from his briefcase. He dipped his uncle's pen and wrote the name Lawrence Stratford 
neatly and quickly, as he had done several times on less important papers in the past.
  
  His hand shook badly, but so much the better. For his uncle had had just such a tremor. 
And the scribble looked all the better when it was done.
  
  He put the pen back and stood with his eyes closed, trying to calm himself again, 
trying to think only, It is done.
  
  The most curious thoughts were flooding him suddenly, that he could undo this! That it 
had been no more than an impulse; that he could roll back the minutes and his uncle would 
be alive again. This positively could not have happened! Poison ... coffee ... Lawrence 
dead.
  
  And then a memory came to him, pure and quiet and certainly welcome, of the day 
twenty-one years ago when his cousin Julie had been born. His uncle and he sitting in the 
drawing room together. His uncle Lawrence, whom he loved more than his father.
  
  "But I want you to know that you will always be my nephew, my beloved nephew ..."
  
  Dear God, was he losing his mind? For a moment he did not even know where he was. He 
could have sworn someone else was in this room with him. Who was it?
  
  That thing in the mummy case. Don't look at it. Like a witness. Get back to the 
business at hand.
  
  The papers are signed; the stock can be sold; and now there is all the more reason for 
Julie to marry that stupid twit Alex Savarell. And all the more reason for Henry's father 
to take Stratford Shipping completely in hand.
  
  Yes. Yes. But what to do at the moment? He looked at the desk again. Everything as it 
was. And those six glittering gold Cleopatra coins. Ah, yes, take one. Quickly, he 
slipped it into his pocket. A little flush warmed his face. Yes, the coin must be worth a 
fortune. And he could fit it into a cigarette case; simple to smuggle. All right.
  
  Now get out of here immediately. No, he wasn't thinking. He couldn't still his heart. 
Shout for Samir, that was the appropriate action. Something horrible has happened to 
Lawrence. Stroke, heart attack, impossible to tell! And this cell is like a furnace. A 
doctor must come at once.
  
  "Samir!"  he cried out, staring forward like a matinee actor at the moment of shock. 
His gaze fell directly again on that grim, loathsome thing in the linen wrappings. Was it 
staring back at him? Were its eyes open beneath the bandages? Preposterous! Yet the 
illusion struck a deep shrill note of panic in him, which gave just the right edge to his 
next shout for help.
  
  URTIVELY THE clerk read the latest edition of the London Herald, the pages folded and 
held carefully out of sight behind his darkly lacquered desk. The office was quiet now 
because of the board meeting, the only sound the distant clack of a typewriting machine 
from an adjoining room.
  
  MUMMY'S CURSE KILLS
  
  STRATFORD SHIPPING MAGNATE
  
  "RAMSES THE DAMNED"  STRIKES DOWN
  
  THOSE WHO DISTURB HIS REST
  
  How the tragedy had caught the public imagination. Impossible to walk a step without 
seeing a front-page story. And how the popular newspapers elaborated upon it, indulging 
in hastily drawn illustrations of pyramids and camels, of the mummy in his wooden coffin 
and poor Mr. Stratford lying dead at his feet.
  
  Poor Mr. Stratford, who had been such a fine man to work for; remembered now for this 
lurid and sensational death.
  
  Just when the furore had died down, it had been given another infusion of vitality:
  
  HEIRESS DEFIES MUMMY'S CURSE" RAMSES THE DAMNED"  TO VISIT LONDON
  
  The clerk turned the page now quietly, folding the paper into a narrow thick column 
width again. Hard to believe Miss Stratford was bringing home ail the treasure to be 
placed on exhibit in her own home in Mayfair. But that is what her father had always done.
  
  The clerk hoped that he'd be invited to the reception, but there was no chance of it, 
even though he had been with Stratford Shipping for some thirty years.
  
  To think, a bust of Cleopatra, the only authenticated portrait in existence. And 
freshly minted coins with her image and name. Ah, he would have liked to see those things 
in Mr. Stratford's library. But he would have to wait until the British Museum claimed 
the collection and put it on display for lord and commoner alike.
  
  And there were things he might have told Miss Stratford, if ever there had been an 
opportunity, things perhaps old Mr. Lawrence would have wanted her to know.
  
  For instance, that Henry Stratford hadn't sat behind his desk for a year now, yet he 
still collected a full salary and bonuses; and that Mr. Randolph wrote him cheques on the 
company funds at random and then doctored the books.
  
  But perhaps the young woman would find out all this for herself. The will had left her 
full control of her father's company. And that's why she was in the boardroom, with her 
handsome fiance, Alex Savarell, Viscount Summer-field, right now.
  
  Randolph could not bear to see her crying like this. Dreadful to be pressing her with 
papers to sign. She looked all the more fragile in her black mourning; her face drawn and 
shimmering as if she were feverish; her eyes full of that odd light that he had first 
seen when she told him that her father was dead.
  
  The other board members sat in sullen silence, eyes downcast. Alex held her arm gently. 
He looked faintly baffled, as if he really didn't understand death; it was just that he 
didn't want her to suffer. Simple soul. Out of place among these merchants and men of 
business; the porcelain aristocrat with his heiress.
  
  Why must we go through with this? Why are we not alone with our grief?
  
  Yet Randolph did it because he had to do it, though never had the whole thing seemed so 
meaningless. Never had his love for his only son been so painfully tried.
  
  "I simply cannot make decisions yet, Uncle Randolph,"  she said to him politely.
  
  "Of course not, my dear,"  he answered." No one expects you to. If you'll only sign 
this draft for emergency funds and leave the rest to us."
  
  "I want to go over everything, to take a hand in things,"  she said." That's clearly 
what Father intended. This whole situation with the warehouses in India, I don't 
understand how it could have come to such a crisis."  She paused, unwilling to be caught 
up in things, perhaps utterly incapable of it, and the tears flowed silently again.
  
  "Leave it to me, Julie,"  he said wearily." I've been handling crises in India for 
years."
  
  He pushed the documents towards her. Sign, please, sign. Do not ask for explanations 
now. Do not add humiliation to this pain.
  
  For that is what was so surprising, that he missed his brother so much. We don't know 
what we feel for those we love until they're taken. All night he'd lain awake remembering 
things ... the Oxford days, their first trips to Egypt-Randolph, Lawrence and Elliott 
Savarell. Those nights in Cairo. He had awakened early and gone through old photographs, 
and papers. Such marvelously vivid memories.
  
  And now, without spirit or will, he tried to cheat Lawrence's daughter. He tried to 
cover for ten years of lies and deceit. Lawrence had built Stratford Shipping because he 
really didn't care about money. Oh, the risks that Lawrence used to take. And what had 
Randolph done since he took over? Hold the reins and steal. To his utter amazement Julie 
lifted the pen and signed her name quickly on all the various papers, without so much as 
reading them. Well, he was safe from her inevitable questions for a little while.
  
  I'm sorry, Lawrence. It was like a silent prayer. Perhaps if you knew the whole story.
  
  "In a few days, Uncle Randolph, I want to sit down and go over everything with you. I 
mink that's what Father wanted. But I'm so tired. It's really time to go home."
  
  "Yes, let me take you home now,"  Alex said immediately. He helped her to her feet.
  
  Dear good Alex. Why couldn't my son have had a mere particle of that gentleness? The 
whole world could have been his. Quickly Randolph went to open the double doors. To his 
amazement he found the men from the British Museum waiting. An annoyance. He would have 
spirited her out another way, if he had known. He did not like the unctuous Mr. Hancock, 
who behaved as if everything Lawrence had discovered belonged to the museum and the world.
  
  "Miss Stratford,"  the man said now as he approached Julie." Everything has been 
approved. The first showing of the mummy will take place in your home, just as your 
father would have wished. We will of course catalogue everything, and remove the 
collection to the museum as soon as you wish it. I thought you would want to have my 
personal assurance. . , ."
  
  "Of course,"  Julie answered wearily. This interested her no more than the board 
meeting, obviously." I'm grateful to you, Mr. Hancock. You know what this discovery meant 
to my father."  There was a pause again as if she would begin crying. And why not?" I 
only wish I'd been with him in Egypt."
  
  "Darling, he died where he'd been most happy,"  Alex offered lamely." And among the 
things he loved."
  
  Pretty words. Lawrence had been cheated. He'd had his momentous find for only a few 
short hours. Even Randolph understood as much.
  
  Hancock took Julie's arm. They moved towards the door together.
  
  "Of course it's impossible to authenticate the remains until we make a thorough 
examination. The coins, the bust, these are quite unprecedented discoveries. ..."
  
  "We'll make no extravagant claims, Mr. Hancock. I only want a small reception for 
Father's oldest friends."
  
  She offered her hand now, in effect dismissing him. She managed such things so 
decisively, so like her father. So like the Earl of Rutherford when you thought about it. 
Hers had always been an aristocratic manner. And if only the marriage were to take 
place...
  
  "Good-bye, Uncle Randolph."
  
  He bent to kiss her cheek.
  
  "I love you, darling,"  he whispered. It surprised him. And so did the smile that 
spread across her face. Did she hear what he had meant to tell her? I am so sorry, sorry 
for everything, my dear.
  
  Alone at last on the marble staircase. All of them gone but Alex, and in her heart of 
hearts, she wished that he were gone too.
</pre>
<!--N=1200 M=1400 pt=-->
  
  She wanted nothing so much now as the quiet interior of her Rolls-Royce limousine with 
the glass shutting out the noise of the world around her.
  
  "Now, I'm going to say this only once, Julie,"  Alex said as he helped her down the 
stairs." But it comes from my soul. Don't let this tragedy postpone the marriage. I know 
your feelings, but you're alone in that house now. And I want to be with you, to take 
care of you. I want us to be husband and wife."
  
  "Alex, I'd be lying to you,"  she said," if I told you I could make a decision now. 
More than ever I need time to think."
  
  She couldn't bear to look at him suddenly; he seemed so young always. Had she ever been 
young? The question would have made Uncle Randolph smile perhaps. She was twenty-one. But 
Alex at twenty-five seemed a boy to her. And it hurt her so much not to love him as he 
deserved to be loved.
  
  The sunlight hurt her eyes as he opened the door to the street. She brought the veil 
down from the brim of her hat. No reporters, thank God no reporters, and the big black 
motor car there waiting with the door open.
  
  "I won't be alone, Alex,"  she said gently." I have Rita and Oscar there. And Henry's 
moving back into his old room. Uncle Randolph insisted upon it. I'll have more company 
than I need."  Henry. The last person in the world she wanted to see was Henry. What an 
irony that he had indeed been the last person her father saw before his eyes closed in 
death.
  
  The reporters mobbed Henry Stratford as he came ashore. Had the mummy's curse 
frightened him? Had he glimpsed anything supernatural at work in the little rock chamber 
where the death of Lawrence Stratford had taken place? Henry fought his way through 
customs in silence, ignoring the noisy, smoky flashes of the cameras. With icy impatience 
he glared at the officials, who checked his few suitcases and then waved him past.
  
  His heart thudded in his ears. He wanted a drink. He wanted the quiet of his own home 
in Mayfair. He wanted his mistress, Daisy Banker. He wanted anything but the dreary ride 
with his father. He avoided Randolph's eyes altogether as he climbed into the back of the 
Rolls.
  
  As the long cumbersome saloon forced its way out of the thick traffic, he caught a 
glimpse of Samir Ibrahaim greeting a group of black-dressed men-undoubtedly busybodies 
from the museum. What a fortunate thing that this corpse of Ramses the Great concerned 
everyone far more than the corpse of Lawrence Stratford, which had been buried without 
ceremony in Egypt, just as Lawrence had wished.
  
  Good Lord, his father looked dreadful, as if he'd aged overnight some ten years. He was 
even a little disheveled.
  
  "Do y" u have a cigarette?"  Henry asked sharply.
  
  Without looking at him his father produced a small thin cigar and a light.
  
  "The marriage is still the essential thing,"  Randolph murmured almost as if he were 
speaking to himself." A new bride simply doesn't have time to think about business. And 
for the time being, I've arranged for you to stay with her. She cannot remain alone."
  
  "Good Lord, Father, this is the twentieth century! Why the hell can't she remain 
alone!" 	'
  
  Stay in that house, and with that disgusting mummy on display in the library? It 
sickened him. He closed his eyes, savored the cigar silently, and thought of his 
mistress. A series of sharp, erotic images passed quickly through his mind.
  
  "Damn it, you do what I tell you,"  his father said. But the voice lacked conviction. 
Randolph gazed out the window." You'll stay there and keep an eye on her and do what you 
can to see she consents to the marriage as quickly as possible. Do your best to see that 
she doesn't move away from Alex. I think Alex has begun to irritate her slightly."
  
  "Small wonder. If Alex had any gumption ..."
  
  "The marriage is good for her. It's good for everyone."
  
  "All right, all right, let's drop it!"
  
  Silence as the car moved on. There was time for dinner with Daisy, and a long rest at 
the flat before he hit the gambling tables at Flint's, that is, if he could force a 
little immediate cash out of his father...
  
  "He didn't suffer, did he?"
  
  Henry gave a little start.
  
  "What? What are you talking about?"
  
  "Your uncle?"  his father asked, turning to him for the first time." The late Lawrence 
Stratford, who has just died in Egypt? Did he suffer, for the love of God, or did he go 
quietly?"
  
  "One minute he was fine, the next he was lying on the floor. He was gone within 
seconds. Why do you ask about something like that?"
  
  "You're such a sentimental young bastard, aren't you?"
  
  "I couldn't prevent it!"
  
  For one moment, the atmosphere of that close little cell came back to him, the acrid 
smell of the poison. And that thing, that thing in the mummy case, and the grim illusion 
that it had been watching.
  
  "He was a pigheaded old fool,"  Randolph said almost in a whisper." But I loved him."
  
  "Did you really?"  Henry turned sharply and peered into his father's face." He's left 
everything to her, and you loved him!"
  
  "He settled plenty on both of us a long time ago. It ought to have been enough, more 
than enough-"
  
  "It's a pittance compared to what she's inherited!"
  
  "I won't discuss this."
  
  Patience, Henry thought. Patience. He sat back against the soft grey upholstery. I need 
a hundred pounds at least and I won't get it like this.
  
  Daisy Banker watched through the lace curtains as Henry stepped out of the cab below. 
She lived in a long flat above the music hail, where she sang every night from ten P.M. 
until two in the morning; a soft ripe peach of a woman with big drowsy blue eyes and 
silver blond hair. Her voice was nothing much and she knew it; but they liked her, they 
did. They liked her very much.
  
  And she liked Henry Stratford, or so she told herself. He was certainly the best thing 
that had ever happened to her. He'd got her the job below, though how she could never 
quite work out; and he paid for the flat, oral least he was supposed to. She knew there 
was quite a bit owing, but then he was just back from Egypt. He'd make it right or shut 
up anyone who questioned him about it. He was very good at doing that.
  
  She ran to the mirror as she heard his tread on the stairs. She pulled down the 
feathered collar of her peignoir and straightened the pearls at her throat. She pinched 
her cheeks to work up the blush just as his key turned in the lock.
  
  "Well, I'd just about given up on you, I had!"  she bawled as he came into the room. 
But oh, the sight of him. It never failed to work on her. He was so very handsome with 
his dark brown hair and eyes; and the way he conducted himself, so truly the gentleman. 
She loved the way he removed his cloak now and threw it carelessly over the chair, and 
beckoned for her to come into his arms. So lazy he was; and so full of himself! But why 
shouldn't he be?
  
  "And my motor car? You promised me a motor car of my own before you left. Where is it! 
That wasn't it downstairs. That was a cab."
  
  There was something so cold in his smile. When he kissed her, his lips hurt her a 
little; and his fingers bit into the soft flesh of her upper arms. She felt a vague chill 
move up her spine; her mouth tingled. She kissed him again and when he led her into the 
bedroom she didn't say a word.
  
  "I'll get you your motor car,"  he whispered into her ear as he tore off the peignoir 
and pressed her against him so that her nipples touched the scratchy surface of his 
starched shirt. She kissed his cheek, then his chin, licking the faint stubble of his 
beard. Lovely to feel him breathe this way, to feel his hands on her shoulders.
  
  "Not too rough, sir,"  she whispered.
  
  "Why not?"
  
  The telephone rang. She could have ripped it from the wall.
  
  She unbuttoned his shirt for him as he answered.
  
  "I told you not to call again, Sharpies."
  
  Oh, that bloody son of a bitch, she thought miserably. She wished he was dead. She'd 
worked for Sharpies before Henry Stratford had rescued her. And Sharpies was a mean one, 
plain and simple. He had left his scar on her, a tiny half-moon on the back of her neck.
  
  "I told you I'd pay you when I got back, didn't I? Suppose you give me time to unpack 
my trunk!"  He jammed down the little cone of a receiver into the hook. She pushed the 
phone back out of the way on the marble-top table.
  
  "Come here to me, sweetheart,"  she said as she sat on the bed.
  
  But her eyes dulled slightly as she watched him staring at the telephone. He was broke 
still, wasn't he? Stone broke.
  
  Strange. There had been no wake in this house for her father. And now the painted 
coffin of Ramses the Great was being carried carefully through the double drawing rooms 
as if by pallbearers, and into the library, which he had always called the Egyptian room. 
A wake for the mummy; and the chief mourner was not here.
  
  Julie watched as Samir directed the men from the museum to
  
  place the coffin carefully upright in the southeast corner, to the left of the open 
conservatory doors. A perfect position. Anyone entering the house could see it 
immediately. All those in the drawing rooms would have a good view of it; and the mummy 
himself would appear to have a view of all assembled to pay him homage when the lid was 
lifted and the body itself was revealed. The scrolls and alabaster jars would be arranged 
on the long marble table beneath the mirror to the left of the upright coffin, along the 
east wall. The bust of Cleopatra was already being placed on a stand in the centre of the 
room. The gold coins would go in a special display case beside the marble table. And 
other miscellaneous treasures could now be arranged any way that Samir saw fit.
  
  The soft afternoon sunlight poured in from the conservatory, throwing its intricate 
dancing patterns over the golden mask of the King's face and his folded arms.
  
  Gorgeous it was, authentic obviously. Only a fool would question such a treasure. But 
what did the whole story mean?
  
  Oh, if only they were all gone, Julie thought, and she could be alone now to study it. 
But the men would be here forever examining the exhibit. And Alex, what to do about Alex, 
who stood beside her, and gave her not a moment to herself?
  
  Of course she'd been glad to see Samir, though it had stirred her own pain to see the 
</pre>
<!--N=1400 M=1600 pt=-->
pain in him.
  
  And he looked stiff and uncomfortable in his black Western suit and starched white 
shirt. In the silks of his native dress, he was a dark-eyed prince, quite removed from 
the dreary routines of this noisy century and its bludgeoning drive to progress. Here he 
looked foreign, and almost servile in spite of the imperious manner in which he ordered 
the workmen about.
  
  Alex stared at the workmen and their relics with the strangest expression. What was it? 
These things meant nothing to him; they had to do with some other world. But did he not 
find them beautiful? Ah, it was so difficult for her to understand." I wonder if there is 
a curse,"  he whispered softly." Oh, please, don't be ridiculous,"  Julie answered." Now, 
they're going to be working for some time. Why don't we go on • back into the 
conservatory and have tea?"
  
  "Yes, we should do that,"  he said. It was dislike in his face, wasn't it? Not 
confusion. He felt nothing for these treasures. They were alien to him; they did not 
matter one way or the other. She might have felt the same way gazing at a modern machine 
she did not understand.
  
  It saddened her. But everything saddened her now-and most of all the fact that her 
father had had so little time with these many treasures, that he had died on the very day 
of his greatest discovery. And that she was the one who must savour each and every 
article that he had uncovered in this mysterious and controversial grave.
  
  Perhaps after tea, Alex would understand that she wanted to be alone. She led him down 
the hall now, past the double doors of me drawing rooms, past the doors of the library 
and out through the marble alcove into the glass room of ferns and flowers that ran 
across the entire back of the house.
  
  This had been Father's favourite place when he was not in the library. No accident that 
his desk and his books were only a few feet away, through those glass doors.
  
  They sat down at the wicker table together, the sun playing beautifully on the silver 
tea service before them.
  
  "You pour, dearest,"  she said to Alex. She laid out the cakes on the plates. Now that 
gave him something to do which he
  
  understood.
  
  Had she ever known a human being who could do all the little things so well? Alex could 
ride, dance, shoot, pour tea, mix delicious American cocktails, slip into the protocol of 
Buckingham Palace without batting an eyelash. He could read an occasional poem with such 
a simulation of feeling that it made her weep. He could kiss very well, too, and there 
was no doubt that marriage with him would have its deeply sensuous moments. No doubt 
whatsoever. But what else would it have?
  
  She felt selfish suddenly. Wasn't all that enough? It hadn't been for her father, a 
merchant prince whose manners were indistinguishable from those of aristocratic friends. 
It had meant nothing at all.
  
  "Drink it, darling, you need it,"  Alex said to her, offering her the cup the way she 
liked it. No milk, no sugar. Only a thin slice of lemon.
  
  Imagine anyone really needing tea.
  
  It seemed the light changed around her; a shadow. She looked up to see that Samir had 
come silently into the room.
  
  "Samir. Sit down. Join us."
  
  He motioned for her to remain where she was. He was holding a leather-bound book in his 
hands.
  
  "Julie,"  he said with a slow and deliberate glance in the direction of the Egyptian 
room," I brought your father's notebook to you. I didn't want to give it to the people at 
the museum."
  
  "Oh, I'm so glad. Do join us, please."
  
  "No, I must return to work immediately. I want to make sure things are done as they 
should be. And you must read this notebook, Julie. The newspapers, they published only 
the bare bones of this story. There is more here. ..."
  
  "Come, sit down,"  she pressed again." We'll take care of that together, later."
  
  After a moment's hesitation, he gave in. He took the chair beside her, giving a little 
polite nod to Alex, to whom he'd been introduced before.
  
  "Julie, your father had only begun his translations. You know his command of the 
ancient tongues..."
  
  "Yes, I'm eager to read it. But what is really troubling you?"  she said earnestly." 
What is wrong?"
  
  Samir pondered, then:" Julie, I am uneasy about this discovery. I am uneasy about the 
mummy and the poisons contained in the tomb."
  
  "Were they really Cleopatra's poisons?"  Alex said quickly." Or is that something the 
reporters dreamed up?"
  
  "No one can say,"  Samir answered politely.
  
  "Samir, everything is carefully labelled,"  Julie said." The servants had been told."
  
  "You don't believe in the curse now, do you?"  Alex asked.
  
  Samir made a little polite smile." No. Nevertheless,"  he said, turning back to Julie." 
Promise me that if you see anything strange, even if you suffer a presentiment, you will 
call me at the museum at once."
  
  "But, Samir, I never expected you to believe-"
  
  "Julie, curses are rare in Egypt,"  he said quickly." And the admonitions written on 
this mummy case are most severe. The story of the creature's immortality, there are more 
details in this little book,"
  
  "But you don't think Father really succumbed to a curse, Samir."
  
  "No. But the things found in the tomb defy explanation. Except if one believes ... But 
then that is absurd. I ask only that you take nothing for granted. That you call me if 
you need me at once."  He took his leave of her abruptly, and went back into the library. 
She could hear him speaking Arabic to one of the workmen. She watched them uneasily 
through the open doors.
  
  Grief, she thought. It's a strange and a misunderstood emotion. He grieves for Father 
as I do, and so the whole discovery is ruined for him. How difficult all this must be.
  
  And he would have so enjoyed all of it if only ... Well, she understood. It was not so 
with her. She wanted nothing so much as to be alone with Ramses the Great and his 
Cleopatra. But she understood. And the pain of Father's loss would be there forever. She 
didn't really want it to go away. She looked at Alex, poor lost boy staring at her with 
such concern.
  
  "I love you,"  he whispered suddenly.
  
  "Why, what on earth has come over you!"  She laughed softly.
  
  He looked baffled, childlike. Her handsome fiance was really suffering suddenly. She 
couldn't bear it.
  
  "I don't know,"  he said." Maybe I'm having a presentiment. Is that what he called it? 
I only know I want to remind you-I love you."
  
  "Oh, Alex, dear Alex."  She bent forward and kissed him, and felt his sudden desperate 
clasp of her hand.
  
  The gaudy little clock on Daisy's dressing table rang six.
  
  Henry sat back, stretched, then reached for the champagne again, filling his glass, 
then hers.
  
  She looked drowsy still, the thin satin strap of her nightgown fallen down over one 
rounded arm.
  
  "Drink, darling,"  he said.
  
  "Not me, lovey. Singing tonight,"  she said with an arrogant lift of her chin." I can't 
drink all day like some I know."  She tore off a bit of meat from the roasted fowl on her 
plate, and put it in her mouth crudely. Beautiful mouth." But this cousin of yours! She's 
not afraid of the bloody mummy! Putting it right there in her own house!"
  
  Big stupid blue eyes fixed on him; just the kind he liked. Though he missed Malenka, 
his Egyptian beauty; he really did. The thing about an Eastern woman was she didn't have 
to be stupid; she could be clever, and just as easy to manage. With a girl like Daisy, 
the stupidity was essential; and then you had to talk to her-and talk to her and talk to 
her.
  
  "Why the hell should she be afraid of the damned mummy!"  he said irritably." The daft 
part is giving the whole treasure to
  
  a museum. She doesn't know what money is, my cousin. She has too much of it to know. He 
increased my trust fund by a pittance and he leaves her a shipping empire. He's the one 
who was ..."
  
  He stopped. The little chamber; the sunlight falling in shafts on that thing. He saw it 
again. Saw what he had done! No. Not right. Died of a heart attack or a stroke, he 
did-the man lying sprawled on the sandy floor, I didn't do it. And that thing, it hadn't 
been staring through the wrappings, that was absurd!
  
  He drank the champagne too quickly. Ah, but it was good, He filled his glass again.
  
  "But a bleeding mummy in the very house with her,"  Daisy said.
  
  And suddenly, violently, he saw those eyes again, beneath rotted bandages, staring at 
him. Yes, staring. Stop it, you fool, you did what you had to do! Stop it or you will go 
mad.
  
  He rose from the table a bit clumsily and put on his jacket, and straightened his silk 
tie.
  
  "But where are you going?"  Daisy asked." You're a bit too drunk to be going out now, 
if you ask me."
  
  "But I didn't,"  he answered. She knew where he was going. He had the hundred pounds 
he'd managed to squeeze out of Randolph, and the casino was open. It had opened at dark.
  
  He wanted to be there alone now, so that he could truly concentrate. Merely thinking of 
it, of the green baize under the lamps and the sound of the dice and roulette wheel, 
engendered a deep excitement in him. One good win, and he'd quit, he promised himself. 
And with a hundred pounds to start. No, he couldn't wait...
  
  Of course he'd run into Sharpies, and he owed Sharpies too much money, but how the hell 
was he supposed to pay it back if he didn't get to the tables, and though he didn't feel 
lucky-no, not lucky at all tonight-well, he had to give it a try.
  
  "Just wait now, sir. Sit down, sir,"  Daisy said, coming after him." Have another glass 
with me and then a little nap. It's barely six o'clock."
  
</pre>
<!--N=1600 M=1800 pt=-->
  "Let me alone,"  he said. He put on his greatcoat and pulled on his leather gloves. 
Sharpies. A stupid man, Sharpies. He felt in his coat pocket for the knife he'd carried 
for years. Yes, still there. He drew it out now, and examined the thin steel blade." Oh 
no, sir,"  Daisy gasped." Don't be a fool,"  he said offhandedly, and closing the knife 
and putting it back into his pocket he went out the door.
  
  No sound now but the low gurgling of the fountain in the conservatory, the ashen 
twilight long gone, the Egyptian room lighted only by the green shaded lamp on Lawrence's 
desk.
  
  Julie sat in her father's leather chair, back to the wall, her silk peignoir soft and 
comfortable, and surprisingly warm, her hand on the diary which she had not yet read.
  
  The glittering mask of Ramses the Great was ever so slightly frightening, the large 
almond-shaped eyes peering into the soft shadows; the marble Cleopatra appeared to glow. 
And so beautiful the coins mounted on black velvet against the far wall.
  
  She had inspected them carefully earlier. Same profile as the bust, same rippling hair 
beneath its gold tiara. A Greek Cleopatra, not the silly Egyptian image so popular in 
programmes for Shakespeare's tragedy, or in the engravings which illustrated Plutarch's 
Lives and popular histories galore.
  
  Profile of a beautiful woman; strong, not tragic. Strong as Romans loved their heroes 
and heroines to be strong.
  
  The thick scrolls of parchment and papyrus looked all too fragile as they lay heaped on 
the marble table. The other items could also be easily destroyed by prying hands. Quill 
pens, ink pots, a little silver burner meant for oil, it seemed, with a ring in which to 
position a glass vial. The vials themselves lay beside it-exquisite specimens of early 
glasswork, each with a tiny silver cap. Of course all these little relics, and the string 
of alabaster jars behind them, were protected by small, neatly inscribed signs which 
read:" Please do not touch."
  
  Nevertheless, it worried her, so many coming here to view these things.
  
  "Remember, it's poison, most definitely,"  Julie had told Rita and Oscar, her 
indispensable maid and butler. And that had been enough to keep them out of the room!
  
  "It's a body, miss,"  Rita had said." A dead body! Never mind it's an Egyptian King. I 
say leave the dead alone, miss."
  
