  
  "Come,"  she said in English." Come with me."
  
  An alleyway; she led him back, stepping over the puddles. Shadowy here, and quieter. 
She turned around and slipped her arms under his. He bent to kiss her.
  
  "Well, not here, right here!"  he asked nervously." Miss, I don't think ..."
  
  "I say here,"  she whispered, kissing him and thrusting her hand into his clothes. Hot 
his skin, what she wanted. Hot and sweet smelling. And so ready he was, the young fawn. 
She lifted the skirts of the pink dress.
  
  It was over too quickly; she shuddered as she held on to him, her body clamped to him, 
her arms wrapped around his neck. She heard him moan as he spilled into her. He was still 
for a moment, too still. The shudders were still passing through her; but she could not 
coax him anymore. He released her and leaned back against the wall, staring, as if he was 
ill.
  
  "Wait, please, give me a moment,"  he said when she started to kiss him again.
  
  She studied him for a few seconds. Very easy. Snap. Then she reached up, took a firm 
hold of his head with both her hands, and twisted it until his neck broke.
  
  He stared off, the way the woman had stared off, and the way the man had also. Nothing 
in his eyes. Nothing. Then he slipped down the wall, his legs wide apart.
  
  She studied him. There was that nagging sense of a mystery again, something to do with 
her. Something to do with what she'd just done.
  
  She remembered that dim figure standing over her. Had it been a dream?" Rise, 
Cleopatra. I, Ramses, call you!"
  
  Ah, no! Merely trying to remember caused a searing pain in her head. But the pain was 
not physical. Pain of the soul it was. She could hear women crying, women she had known. 
Women weeping. Saying her name to her. Cleopatra. Then someone covered her face with a 
sheer black cloth. Was the snake still alive? Strange it seemed to her that the snake 
should outlive her. She felt again the sting of the fangs in her breast.
  
  She gave a dull little groan as she stood there, leaning against the wall, looking down 
at the dead boy. When had all that happened? Where? Who had she been?
  
  Don't remember." Modern times"  await.
  
  She bent over, and slipped the money out of the boy's coat. Lots and lots of money in a 
little leather book. She slipped it deep into her pocket. Other things here as well. A 
card with English writing and a tiny portrait of the boy, how remarkable. Very beautiful 
work. And then two small bits of stiff paper with AIDA written on them. And OPERA. They 
bore the same tiny drawing she had seen in the" magazine"  of an Egyptian woman's head.
  
  Surely these were worth taking as well. She threw away the dead man's picture. Slipping 
the little opera papers into her pocket also, she sang" Celeste Aida"  again softly to 
herself as she stepped over the dead boy and walked out again into the noisy street.
  
  Be not afraid. Do as they do. If they walk near the metal pathways, you must do this 
too.
  
  But no sooner had she started off again than there came one of those shrill blasts from 
the iron chariots. She covered her ears, crying in spite of herself, and when she looked 
up another fine man was standing in her path.
  
  "Can I help you, little lady? You're not lost down here, are you? You mustn't go about 
down here by the railway station with that money showing in your pocket like that."
  
  "Railway station ..."
  
  "Don't you have a handbag?"
  
  "No,"  she said innocently. She allowed him to take her arm." You help me?"  she said, 
remembering the phrase Lord Rutherford had used a hundred times to her." I can trust you?"
  
  "Oh, of course!"  he said. And he meant it. Another young one. With smooth, lovely skin!
  
  Two Arabs left the rear of Shepheard's, one slightly taller than the other, both 
striding very fast.
  
  "Remember,"  Samir said under his breath," take very big steps. You are a man. Men do 
not take small steps, and swing your arms naturally."
  
  "I should have (earned this trick a long time ago,"  Julie answered.
  
  The Great Mosque swarmed with the faithful as well as tourists who had come to see this 
wonder, and come to see the sight of devout Moslems in worship on their knees. Julie and 
Samir moved lazily through the crush of tourists. Within minutes they had spotted the 
tall Arab with the dark glasses, in his flowing white robes.
  
  Samir placed a key in Ramses' hand. He whispered the address and the directions. Ramses 
should follow him. It would not be a long walk.
  
  He and Julie moved on, with Ramses a few paces behind.
  
  Ah, she liked this one, who called himself an American and spoke in such a strange 
voice. They rode along together in the horse-drawn" taxi"  carriage, among the" 
motorcars."  And she was no longer afraid.
  
  Before they'd left the" railway station"  she'd realized that the big iron chariots 
pulled people about. Just a common means of transportation. How strange.
  
  This one was not as elegant as Lord Rutherford, by any means, but he spoke more slowly 
and it was becoming quite simple for her to understand, especially as he pointed to 
things as he spoke. She knew now what was a Ford automobile, and a Stutz Bearcat, and 
also a little roadster. This man sold such things in America. He was a merchant of Ford 
automobiles in America. Even poor people could buy these driving machines.
  
  She clutched the canvas bag he'd bought her, which held the money and the bits of paper 
with OPERA written on them.
  
  "And this here is where the tourists live,"  he said to her," more or less. I mean, 
this is the British sector. ..."
  
</pre>
<!--N=11600 M=11800 pt=-->
  "English,"  she said.
  
  "Yes, but all the Europeans and Americans pretty much come here, too. And that building 
there-that's where all the best people stay, the British and the Americans, that's 
Shepheard's, the hotel, if you know what I mean."
  
  "Shepheard's-the hotel?"  She gave a little laugh.
  
  "That's where the opera ball's going to be tomorrow night. That's where I'm staying. I 
don't much like opera" -he made a little face-"never did much care for it. But here in 
Cairo, well, this is an important thing, you see."
  
  "Important thing, you see."
  
  "Real important. So I figured pretty much I'd go, you see, and to the ball afterwards, 
though I had to rent a tailcoat and all that."  He had a lovely light in his eyes as he 
looked down at her. He was enjoying himself immensely.
  
  And she was enjoying herself as well.
  
  "And Aida being all about ancient Egypt."
  
  "Yes, Radames singing."
  
  "Yes! So you know it. Bet you like opera, bet you appreciate it."  Suddenly he made a 
little frown." Are you okay, little lady? Maybe you'd find the old city more romantic. 
You want something to drink? How about a little ride in my car. It's parked right behind 
Shepheard's."
  
  "Motorcar?"
  
  "Oh, you're quite safe with me, little lady, I'm a real safe driver. Tell you what. 
Have you been out to the pyramids?"
  
  Pee-ra-mids.
  
  "No,"  she said." Drive in your car, super!"
  
  He laughed. He shouted a command to the taxi and the driver pulled the horse to the 
left. They rode around the hotel, Shepheard's, a handsome building with pretty gardens.
  
  When he reached up to help her down from the carriage, he almost touched the tender 
opening in her side. She shivered. But it had not happened. Yet it had reminded her that 
the wound was there. How could one live with such awful sores? That was the mystery. 
Whatever happened now, she must return at dusk to see Lord Rutherford again. Lord 
Rutherford had gone to speak with the man who could explain these things-the man with the 
blue eyes.
  
  They arrived together at the hideout. Julie agreed to wait as Samir and Ramses entered, 
inspected the three little rooms and their neglected garden; then they motioned for her 
to come in, and Ramses bolted the door.
  
  There was a small wooden table with a candle in the middle, stuck in an old wine 
bottle. Samir lighted the candle. Ramses drew up two of the straight-backed chairs. Julie 
brought the other.
  
  This was comfortable enough. The afternoon sun came through the old garden and through 
the back door, and the place was hot, but not unbearable, as it had been locked up for a 
long time. A damp musky odor of spices and hemp hung in the air.
  
  Julie took off the Arab headdress, and shook out her hair. She had not pinned it up 
because of the headdress, and now she loosened the ribbon that kept it tied at the back 
of her neck.
  
  "I don't believe you killed that woman,"  she said immediately, looking up at Ramses as 
he sat across from her.
  
  Like a sheikh he looked in the desert robes, his face partially in shadow, the candle 
glinting in his eyes.
  
  Samir sat down quietly to her left.
  
  "I didn't kill the woman,"  Ramses said to her." But I am responsible for the woman's 
death. And I need your help, both of you. I need someone's help. And I need your 
forgiveness. The time has come for me to tell you everything."
  
  "Sire, I have a message for you,"  Samir said," which I must give you at once."
  
  "What message?"  Julie asked. Why hadn't Samir told her of this?
  
  "Is it from the gods, Samir'? Are they calling me to account? I have no time for less 
important messages. I must tell you what has happened, what I've done."
  
  "It's from the Earl of Rutherford, sire. He accosted me at the hotel. He looked like a 
madman; he said that I must tell you that he has her."
  
  Ramses was obviously stunned. He glared at Samir almost murderously.
  
  Julie could not bear this.
  
  Samir removed something from under his robe and gave it to Ramses. It was a glass vial, 
such as those she'd seen among the alabaster jars in the collection.
  
  Ramses looked at this, but he didn't move to touch it. Samir went to speak again, but 
Ramses gestured for quiet. His face was so heavily disfigured with emotion that he scarce 
looked like himself.
  
  "Tell me what this means!"  Julie said, unable to stop herself.
  
  "He followed me to the museum,"  Ramses whispered. He stared at the empty vial.
  
  "But what are you talking about? What happened at the museum?"
  
  "Sire, he says that the sun has helped her. That the medicine in the vial helped her, 
but that she needs more of it. She is damaged, inside and out. She has killed three 
times. She is mad. He keeps her safe in hiding, he wants a meeting with you. He has given 
me the time and place."
  
  For a moment, Ramses said nothing. Then he rose from the table and headed towards the 
door.
  
  "No, stop!"  Julie cried out, rushing towards him.
  
  Samir was also on his feet.
  
  "Sire, if you try to find him sooner, you may be apprehended. The hotel is surrounded. 
Wait till he leaves and goes to this place for the meeting. It is the only safe thing to 
do!"
  
  Ramses was clearly stymied. Reluctantly, he turned, looking past Julie with dull, 
crazed eyes. He moved back sluggishly to the chair and sat down.
  
  Julie wiped her tears with her handkerchief and took her chair again.
  
  "Where and when?"  Ramses asked.
  
  "Seven tonight. The Babylon, it's a French night club. I know it. I can take you there."
  
  "I cannot wait until then!"
  
  "Ramses, tell us what all this means. How can we help you if we don't know?"
  
  "Sire, Julie is right. Take us into your trust now. Allow us to assist in this. If you 
are captured again by the police ..."
  
  Ramses waved it away in disgust. His face was working silently with emotion.
  
  "I need you, and when I tell you, I may lose you. But so be it. For I have wreaked 
havoc with your lives."
  
  "You will never lose me,"  Julie said, but her fear was mounting. A great dread of what 
was to come was building in her soul.
  
  Until these last few moments she thought she understood what had happened. He had taken 
the body of his love from the museum. He had wanted to see it properly put in a tomb. But 
now, faced with the vial and these strange words from Elliott, she considered other more 
ghastly possibilities, denying them in the same instant, but returning to them again.
  
  "Put your trust in us, sire. Let us share this burden."
  
  Ramses looked at Samir, then at her.
  
  "Ah, the guilt you can never share,"  he said." The body in the museum. The unknown 
woman ..."
  
  "Yes,"  Samir whispered.
  
  "She was not unknown to me, my dear ones. The ghost of Julius Caesar would have known 
her. The shade of Mark Antony would have kissed her. Millions once mourned for her. ..."
  
  Julie nodded, tears rising again.
  
  "And I have done the unspeakable. I took the elixir to the museum. I did not realize 
how much her body had been ravaged, that whole hunks of flesh were no longer there, I 
poured the elixir over her! After two thousand years life stirred in her ruined body. She 
rose! Bleeding, wounded, she stood upright. She walked. She reached out for me. She 
called my name!"
  
  Ah, it was better than the finest wine, better even than making love, racing over the 
road in the open American motor car, the wind whistling past her, the American shouting 
convivially as he jerked the" stick shift"  this way and that.
  
  To see the houses flying past. To see the Egyptians trudging with their donkeys and 
camels and to leave them in a spray of gravel.
  
  She adored it. She looked up at the open sky above, letting the wind lift her hair 
completely as she kept one hand firmly on her hat.
  
  Now and then she studied what he did to make this chariot move. Pump the "pedals",  as 
he called them, over and over again; pull the stick; turn the wheel.
  
  Ah, it was too thrilling; too marvellous. But suddenly that horrid shrill sound caught 
her off guard. That roaring she had heard in the  railway station. Her hands flew to her 
ears.
  
  "Don't be frightened, little lady, it's just a train. See there, the train's coming!"  
The motor coach came to a jerking halt.
  
  Metal pathways side by side in the desert sand before them. And that thing, that great 
black monster bearing down from the right. A bell was clanging. She was dimly aware of a 
red light flashing, like a lantern beam. Would she never get away from these hideous 
things?
  
  He put his arm around her.
  
  "It's all right, little lady. We just have to wait for it to pass."
  
  He was still speaking, but now the great rattle and clatter of the monster drowned out 
his words. Horrid, the wheels rumbling by in front of her, and even the long procession 
of wooden wagons, filled with human beings who sat inside against the wooden slats as if 
</pre>
<!--N=11800 M=12000 pt=-->
this were the most simple thing in the world.
  
  She tried to regain her composure. She liked the feel of his warm hands on her; the 
smell of the perfume rising from his skin. She watched dully as the last of the cars 
rolled by. Again the bell clanged. The light atop the pillar flashed.
  
  The American pumped the pedals again, pulled the stick; the car began to rumble, and 
they drove over the metal pathways and on into the desert.
  
  "Well, most people in Hannibal, Missouri, you tell them about Egypt, they don't even 
know what you're talking about. I said to my father, I'm going over there, that's what 
I'm going to
  
  do. I'm taking the money I've made and going over there, and then I'll settle down back 
here. ..."
  
  She caught her breath. She was settling into the pleasure of it again. Then far away to 
the left, on the horizon, she saw the pyramids of Giza! She saw the figure of the Sphinx 
coming into view.
  
  She gave a little cry. This was Egypt. She was in Egypt in "modern times,"  but she was 
still at home.
  
  A lovely sadness softened her all over. The tombs of her ancestors, and there the 
sphinx to whom she had gone as a young girl, to pray in the temple between its great paws.
  
  "Ah, yes, that's a pretty sight, isn't it? I tell you, if people in Hannibal, Missouri, 
don't appreciate it, it's their tough luck."
  
  She laughed." Their tough luck,"  she said.
  
  As they drew closer, she saw the crowds. A great field of motor cars and carriages. And 
women in frilly dresses with tiny waists, like her own. Men in straw hats like the 
American. And many Arabs with their camels, and armfuls of cheap necklaces. She smiled.
  
  In her time they had sold cheap jewelry here to the visiting Romans. They had peddled 
rides on their camels. They were doing the very same thing now!
  
  But it took her breath away, the great tomb of King Kufu looming above her. When had it 
been that she had come here, a small girl, and seen this huge structure made up of square 
blocks? And then with Ramses, later, alone in the cool of the night, when she'd been 
wrapped in a dark robe, a common woman, riding with him along this very same road.
  
  Ramses! No, something horrid that she did not want to remember. The dark waters rushing 
over her. She had been walking towards him, and he had been backing away!
  
  The American motor car jerked to a halt again.
  
  "Come on, little lady, let's get out and see it. Seventh wonder of the world."
  
  She smiled at the chubby-faced American; so gentle with her he was.
  
  "Okaaaay! Super!"  she said. She jumped down from the high open seat before he could 
give her a helping hand.
  
  Her body was very close to his. His chubby nose crinkled as he smiled at her. Sweet 
young mouth. She kissed him suddenly. She stood on tiptoe and embraced him. Hmmmm. Sweet 
and young like the other. And so surprised!
  
  "Well, you sure are an affectionate little thing,"  he said hi her ear. He didn't seem 
to know what to do now. Well, she would show him. She took his hand and they walked over 
the beaten sand towards the pyramids.
  
  "Ah, look!"  she said, pointing to the palace that had been built to the right.
  
  "Ah, that's the Mena House,"  he said." Not a bad hotel, either. It's not Shepheard's, 
but it's okay. We can have a bite to eat there later, if you like."
  
  "I tried to fight them,"  Ramses said." It was impossible. There were simply too many. 
They took me away to the jail. I needed time to heal. It must have been a half hour 
before I managed to escape."
  
  Silence.
  
  Julie had buried her face in her handkerchief.
  
  "Sire,"  Samir said gently." You knew this elixir could do such a thing?"
  
  "Yes, Samir. I knew, though I had never put it to such a test."
  
  "Then it was human nature, sire. No more and no less."
  
  "Ah, but Samir, I have made so many blunders over the centuries. I knew the dangers of 
the chemical. And you must know those dangers now too. You must know if you are to help 
me. This creature-this mad thing which I've brought back to life cannot be destroyed."
  
  "Surely there is some way,"  Samir said.
  
  "No. I've learned this through trial and error. And your modem biology books, they've 
sharpened my understanding. Once the cells of the body are saturated with the elixir, 
they renew themselves constantly. Plant, animal, human-it is all the same."
  
  "No age, no deterioration,"  Julie murmured. She was calmer now, she could trust her 
voice.
  
  "Precisely. One full cup made me immortal. No more than the contents of that vial. I am 
eternally in the prime of life. I don't need food, yet I am always hungry. I don't need 
sleep, yet I can enjoy it. I have perpetually the desire to ... make love."
  
  "And this woman-she did not receive the full measure."
  
  "No, and she was damaged to begin with! That was my folly, don't you see! The body was 
not all there! But damaged or no, she is now virtually unstoppable. I understood that 
when she came towards me through the corridor! Don't you see?"
  
  "You're not thinking in terms of modern science,"  Julie said. She wiped both her eyes 
slowly." There must be a way to halt the process."
  
  "On the other hand, if you were to give her the full measure- more of the medicine, as 
the Earl put it..."
  
  "That's madness,"  Julie interjected." You can't even consider it. You'll make the 
thing stronger."
  
  "Listen, both of you,"  Ramses said," to what I have to say. Cleopatra is only part of 
this tragedy. The Earl knows the secret now with certainty. It is the elixir itself that 
is dangerous, more dangerous than you know."
  
  "People will want it, yes,"  Julie said," and they will do anything to get it. But 
Elliott can be reasoned with, and Henry is a fool."
  
  '"There's more to it than that. We are speaking of a chemical which changes any living 
substance by which it is absorbed."  Ramses waited a moment, glancing at both of them. 
Then he went on:" Centuries ago, when I was still Ramses, ruler of this land, I dreamed I 
would use this elixir to make food and drink aplenty for my people. We would have famine 
no more. Wheat that would grow back instantly after every harvest. Fruit trees that would 
bear forever. Do you know what came to pass?"
  
  Fascinated, they stared at him in silence.
  
  "My people could not digest this immortal food. It stayed whole in their insides. They 
died in agony as if they had eaten sand."
  
  "Ye gods,"  Julie whispered." Yet it's perfectly logical. Of course!"
  
  "And when I sought to burn the fields and slaughter the immortal hens and milk cows, I 
saw the burnt wheat spring to life as soon as the sun shone on it. I saw burnt and 
headless carcasses struggle to rise. Finally it was all cast into the sea, weighted and 
sent to the very bottom, where surely it remains, whole and intact, to this day."
  
  Samir shuddered; he folded his arms over his chest as if he were cold.
  
  Julie looked steadily at Ramses." So what you're saying is ... if the secret fell into 
the wrong hands, whole regions of the earth could be rendered immortal."
  
  "Whole peoples,"  Ramses answered soberly." And we who are immortal hunger as much as 
the living. We would crowd out the living to consume what has always been theirs!"
  
  "The very rhythm of life and death would be endangered,"
  
  Samir said.
  
  "This secret must be destroyed utterly!"  Julie said." If you have the elixir in your 
possession, destroy it. Now."
  
  "And how do I do that, dearest? If I hurl the dry powder into the wind, the tiny 
particles cleave as they fall to the earth, waiting for the first rain to liquefy them 
and carry them down to the roots of the trees, which they will make immortal. If I pour 
the liquid into the sand, it pools there until the camel comes to drink. Pour it into the 
sea and I give birth to immortal fishes, serpents, crocodiles."
  
  "Stop,"  she whispered.
  
  "Can you consume it yourself, sire, without harm coming to you?"
  
  "I don't know. I would imagine that I could. But who knows?"
  
  "Don't do it!"  Julie whispered.
  
  He gave her a faint, sad smile.
  
  "You care still what becomes of me, Julie Stratford?"
  
  "Yes, I care,"  she whispered." You're only a man; with a god's secret in your 
possession. I care."
  
  "That's just it, Julie,"  he said." I have the secret in here."  He tapped the side of 
his forehead." I know how to make the elixir. What happens to the few vials I possess 
does not ultimately matter, for I can always brew more."
  
  They looked at each other. The full horror of it was impossible to encompass steadily. 
One had to view it, draw away from it and then reexamine it again.
  
  "Now you understand why for a thousand years I shared the elixir with no one. I knew 
the danger. And then, with the weakness of a mortal man-to use your modern phrase-I fell 
in love."
  
  Julie's eyes again filled with tears. Samir waited patiently.
  
  "Yes, I know."  Ramses sighed." I've been a fool. Two thousand years ago, I watched my 
love die rather than give the elixir to her lover-Mark Antony, a dissolute man, who would 
have hounded me to the ends of the earth for the formula itself. Can you imagine those 
two, immortal rulers? 'Why can we not make an immortal army?' she said to me when his 
influence had thoroughly corrupted her. When she had become his pawn. And now, in this 
day and age of astonishing wonders, I overruled her last words to me and brought her back 
to life."
  
  Julie swallowed. The tears poured down silently. She no longer even wiped at them with 
the little handkerchief. She reached across the table and touched the back of his hand.
  
</pre>
<!--N=12000 M=12200 pt=-->
  "No. Ramses, it isn't Cleopatra. Don't you see? You've made a terrible mistake, yes, 
and we must find a way to undo it. But it isn't Cleopatra. It cannot possibly be."
  
  "Julie, I made no mistake on that account! And she knew me! Don't you understand? She 
called my name!"
  
  Soft music drifted from the Mena House. There were twinkling yellow lights in its 
windows. Tiny figures moved back and forth on its broad terrace.
  
  Cleopatra and the American stood in a dark tunnel, high up on the pyramid; the burial 
shaft.
  
  Feverishly she embraced him, slipping her silk-covered fingers into his shirt. Ah, the 
nipples of men, so tender; such a key to torment and ecstasy; how he writhed as she 
twisted them ever so gently, her tongue darting in and out of his mouth.
  
  All the bravado and high spirits were gone now. He was her slave. She ripped the linen 
fabric back off his chest, and plunged her hand down under his leather belt to the root 
of his sex.
  
  He moaned against her. She felt him gathering up her skirts. Then suddenly his hand 
stopped. His whole body stiffened. Awkwardly she turned her head; he was staring down at 
her naked leg, her foot.
  
  He was staring at the great strip of bloody bone exposed in her leg, at the fan of 
bones in her foot.
  
  "Jesus Christ!"  he whispered. He drew back from her against the wall." Jesus Christ!"
  
  A low growl of rage and hurt broke from her." Take your eyes off me!"  she screamed in 
Latin." Turn your eyes away from me! You will not look at me in disgust."
  
  She sobbed as she grabbed his head with both hands and banged it against the stone 
wall." You will die for this!"  she spit at him. And then the twist, the simple little 
twist. And he was dead, too.
  
  That was all that was required, and now there was blessed silence and his body lying 
there, like the body of the other, with the money showing under his sagging coat.
  
  Her wounds could not kill her. The blast of heat from the one called Henry had not 
killed her; the blast which made the horrible, unbearable noise. But all it took to kill 
them was this.
  
  She looked out of the opening of the shaft, down over the dark ocher sands towards the 
soft tights of the Mena House. Again, she heard the music, so sweet, drifting on the cool 
air.
  
  Always cool at night, the desert. And almost dark, wasn't it? Tiny stars above in the 
azure sky. She felt a strange moment of peace. Nice to walk alone, away from them in the 
desert.
  
  But Lord Rutherford. The medicine. Almost dark.
  
  She bent down now, took the American's money. She thought of the beautiful yellow motor 
car. Ah, that would take her back to where she'd come from very swiftly. And now it was 
hers all alone.
  
  Suddenly she was laughing, thrilled by the prospect. She rushed down the side of the 
pyramid, dropping easily from one stone block to the one below it; so much strength now, 
and then she ran towards the car.
  
  Simple. Press the electric starter button. Then push the" gas pedal."  At once it began 
to roar. Then forward on the stick, as she had seen him do it, as she depressed the other 
pedal, and miracle of miracles, she was racing forward, giving a mad turn to the wheel.
  
  She drove in a great circle before the Mena House. A few terrified Arabs scurried out 
of her path. She hit the throbbing" horn,"  as he had called it. It frightened their 
camels.
  
  Then she made for the road, pulling the stick back again to make it go faster, then 
shoving it forwards, just as she had seen him do.
  
  When she came to the metal pathway, she stopped. She clutched the wheel, trembling. But 
no sound came from the great empty reaches of the desert to right and left. And ahead lay 
the lights of Cairo, such a sweet spectacle under the paling, star-filled sky.
  
  " 'Celeste Aida!'" she sang as she started up and raced forward once more.
  
  "You asked for our help,"  Julie said." You asked for our forgiveness. Now I want you 
to listen to me."
  
  "Yes, I want to,"  Ramses said in a heartfelt voice, but he was puzzled. "Julie, it is 
she ... beyond question."
  
  "The body, yes,"  Julie responded." It was hers, without doubt. But the being who lives 
now? No. It is not the same woman you once loved. That woman, wherever she is, has no 
consciousness now of what is happening to this body."
  
  "Julie, she knew me! She recognized me!"
  
  "Ramses, the brain in that body knew you. But think about what you are saying. Think 
about the implications. The implications are every thing, Ramses. Our intellects-our 
souls, if you will-they don't reside in the flesh, slumbering for centuries as our bodies 
rot. Either they go on to higher realms or they cease to exist altogether. The Cleopatra 
you loved ceased to exist in that body the day it died."
  
  He stared at her, trying to grasp this.
  
  "Sire, I think there is wisdom here,"  Samir said. But he too was confused." The Earl 
says that she knows who she is."
  
  "She knows who she is supposed to be,"  Julie said." The cells! They are there, 
revitalized, and possibly some memory is encoded within them. But this thing is a 
monstrous twin of your lost love. How can it be more than that?"
  
  "This could be true,"  Samir murmured." If you do what the Earl suggests-if you give 
her more of the drug, you may only be revitalizing a ... a demon."
  
  "This is beyond my understanding!"  Ramses confessed." It is Cleopatra!"
  
  Julie shook her head." Ramses, my father has been dead no more than two months. There 
was no autopsy performed on his remains. The only embalming done upon him was the age-old 
miracle of the Egyptian heat and desert dryness. He lies, intact, in a crypt here in 
Egypt. But do you think I'd take this elixir, if I had it in my hands, and raise him from 
the dead?"
  
  "God in heaven,"  Samir whispered.
  
  "No!"  Julie said." Because it wouldn't be my father. The connection has been fatally 
broken! A duplicate of my father would rise. A duplicate who knew perhaps all that my 
father had known. But my father wouldn't be there. He wouldn't know the duplicate was 
walking about. And what you have brought back to life is a duplicate of Cleopatra! Your 
lost love is not there."
  
  Ramses was silent. This seemed to shake him as profoundly as everything else. He looked 
at Samir.
  
  "What religion, sire, holds that the soul remains in the rotted flesh? It was not so 
with our forefathers. It is not so in any land in the world."
  
  "You are truly immortal, my beloved,"  Julie said." But Cleopatra has been dead for 
twenty centuries. She is still dead. The thing you resurrected must be destroyed."
  
  O, I'm sorry, Miles. My father's not here. Yes, I will. Immediately."  Alex hung up the 
telephone. Elliott watched him from the desk in the corner of the room." Thank you, Alex. 
Lying is actually an underrated social skill. Some clever person should write a polite 
guide to lying. And all the charitable principles which justify lying so well."
  
  "Father, I am not letting you go out alone."
  
  Elliott turned back to the work at hand. His bath and brief rest had done much to 
restore his strength, even though it had been impossible to really sleep. He had had a 
quiet hour to think out what he meant to do now; and he had made his decision, though he 
had little hope that his scheme would work. Nevertheless the elixir was worth it. If only 
Samir had reached Ramses. And everything in the man's manner had indicated to him that 
Samir knew where Ramses was.
  
  He sealed the last of the three envelopes, which he had just addressed, and turned 
again to his son.
  
  "You will do exactly as I've told you,"  he said firmly." If I do not return by 
tomorrow noon, post these letters. To your mother and to Randolph. And leave Cairo as 
soon as you possibly can. Now give me my walking stick. And I need my cloak, also. It's 
damned cold in this city after dark."
  
  Walter fetched the stick immediately. He had the cloak over his arm. He put it over 
Elliott's shoulders, adjusting it snugly.
  
  "Father,"  Alex pleaded," for the love of-""Good-bye, Alex. Remember. Julie needs you. 
She needs you here."
  
  "Sire, it's past six now,"  Samir said." I must show you how to find this tavern."
  
  "I can find it on my own, Samir,"  Ramses answered." Go back to the hotel, both of you. 
I must see for myself ... the state of things. And then I shall get word to you as soon 
as I can."
  
  "No,"  Julie said," let me go with you."
  
  "Unthinkable,"  Ramses said." It's much too dangerous. And this is something I must 
face alone."
  
  "Ramses, I'm not leaving you,"  she insisted.
  
  "Julie, we must return now,"  Samir said." We must be seen before they start searching 
for us."
  
  Ramses rose to his feet slowly. He turned away from the flickering light of the candle, 
which was now the only illumination in the dark room. He lifted his hands as if in 
prayer. He looked for all the world like one of the Moslems in the mosque as he stood 
there, a tiny speck of light shining in his eyes.
  
  "Julie,"  he said, turning back to her with a deep sigh." If you go home to England 
now, you can still recover your old life."
  
  "Oh, you hurt me, Ramses!"  she said." You wound me to the quick. Do you love her, 
Ramses? Do you love this thing you've raised from the grave?"
  
  She had not meant to say this. She stopped, defeated, and now it was she who turned 
away.
  
  "I know I love you, Julie Stratford,"  he whispered." I've loved you from the first 
moment I saw you. I braved discovery to save you. And I want your love now."
  
  "Then don't speak of my leaving you,"  she said, her voice breaking." Ramses, if I 
never see you again after this night, my life is destroyed."
  
  "On my honour, you shall see me."
  
  He took her in his arms.
</pre>
<!--N=12200 M=12400 pt=-->
  
  "My love, my brave love,"  he whispered, caressing her." I need you-both of you-more 
than I can say."
  
  "May the old gods be with you, sire,"  Samir whispered." We will count the minutes 
until we receive some word."
  
  Only a dim light burned in Winthrop's office. He was staggered by the report on his 
desk. The young official standing before him waited for orders.
  
  "And his head was crushed, you said?"
  
  "Neck broken also. Like the maid in the museum. And all his money had been taken, 
though his passport had been left in the mud."
  
  "Double the watch on Shepheard's,"  said Winthrop." And get the Earl of Rutherford over 
here immediately. We know he's there, I don't care what his son says. We saw him go in."
  
  Out of the back door of the wing, Elliott walked swiftly, stiffening his left leg to 
take the weight off the knee. He crossed the dark parking lot and headed towards old 
Cairo. Only when he was two streets away from Shepheard's did he hail a passing cab.
  
  Julie slipped into her suite, and locked the door. The Arab robe was folded tightly 
under her arm. She had removed it in the cab, and she stuffed it now in the bottom of die 
wardrobe behind her trunk.
  
  Going into the bedroom, she drew the small suitcase down from the wardrobe shelf. What 
few things did she need? So much she possessed did not matter to her. Only freedom 
mattered now, freedom with Ramses, to somehow escape this hideous tangle of events.
  
  But what if she never again laid eyes upon this man who had thrown her entire past life 
into shadow? What was the point of packing this suitcase until she knew what had happened?
  
  Suddenly the entire thing overwhelmed her. She lay down on the bed, weak, sick at heart.
  
  She was crying softly when Rita came in.
  
  The Babylon. He could hear the drums and cymbals as he hurried down the crooked little 
stone street. How odd that at this moment he would remember Lawrence so keenly, his 
beloved Lawrence.
  
  Suddenly a soft collection of sounds behind him forced him to stop. Someone had dropped 
down off the roof! He turned around.
  
  "Keep walking,"  said die tall Arab. It was Ramsey!" There
  
  is a bar around the corner which I prefer for this meeting. It is quiet. Go in ahead of 
me and sit down."
  
  Elliott was weak with relief. He obeyed immediately. Whatever happened, he was no 
longer alone in this nightmare. Ramsey would know what to do. He pushed on to the little 
bar, and went inside.
  
  Beaded curtains; low flickering oil lamps; wooden tables; the usual collection of 
disreputable Europeans. An indifferent serving boy swabbing a table with a filthy rag.
  
  A tall blue-eyed Arab in handsome robes sat at the last table, his back to the right 
wall. Ramsey. He must have entered from the rear.
  
  Several patrons eyed Elliott arrogantly as he made his way to the back. He was 
conspicuous in his proper clothes. The least of his worries.
  
  He took the chair to the right of Ramsey, with its back to the rear door.
  
  The sputtering little lamp on the table reeked of scented oil. Ramses already had a 
drink in his hand. There was a bottle without a label and a clean glass.
  
  "Where is she?"  Ramsey said.
  
  "I have no intention of telling you,"  Elliott said.
  
  "Oh? What are the rules of this game? Or am I to remain at a major disadvantage?"
  
  Elliott was quiet for a moment. He reflected upon his decision again. Worth it. Worth 
the shame of the moment. He cleared his throat.
  
  "You know what I want,"  he said to Ramsey." You've known since the beginning. I didn't 
make this journey to Egypt to protect my future daughter-in-law's chastity. That's 
absurd."
  
  "I believed you were an honorable man."
  
  "I am, though today I've witnessed things that would sicken a monster."
  
  "You should never have followed me to the museum."
  
  Elliott nodded. He picked up the bottle, uncorked it and filled the glass. Whisky. Ah, 
yes. He took a stiff drink.
  
  "I know I shouldn't have followed you,"  he said." It was a young man's folly. And 
maybe I would be young again ... forever."
  
  He looked at Ramsey. There was more than a touch of majesty to the man in these white 
robes. He looked biblical, larger
  
  than Hie. His blue eyes were rimmed with red, however. And he was weary, and suffering. 
That was quite clear.
  
  "I want the elixir,"  Elliott said politely." Once You've given it to me, once I've 
drunk it, then I'll tell you where she is. And she shall become your responsibility. And 
believe you me, I don't envy you. Though I have done all that I could."
  
  "What state is she in? I want to know precisely."
  
  "Healed, but not enough. She is beautiful and she is deadly. She killed Henry, and his 
Egyptian mistress, Malenka."
  
  Ramsey said nothing for a moment, then:
  
  "Well, young Stratford got what he deserved, to use your modem expression. He murdered 
his uncle. He tried to murder his cousin. I rose from the grave to stop him. The story he 
told you of my trying to strangle him was true."
