its court of pillars within, he fell strangely silent. He looked up at the great reliefs 
of the warrior King in battle.
  
  "This was my first pupil,"  he said." The one to whom I had come after hundreds of 
years of wandering. I'd come home to Egypt to die, but nothing could kill me. And then I 
conceived of what I should do. Go to the royal house, become a guardian, a teacher. He 
believed me, this one, my namesake, my distant child. When I spoke to him of history, of 
distant lands, he listened."
  
  "And the elixir, did he want it?"  Julie asked.
  
  They stood alone in the ruins of the great hall, entirely surrounded by the carved 
pillars. The desert wind was cold now. It tore at Julie's hair. Ramses slipped his arms 
around her.
  
  "I never told him I had been a mortal man,"  he said." You see, I never told that to 
any of them. I knew from the last years of my own mortal life what the secret could do. I 
had seen it turn my son, Meneptah, into a traitor. Of course he failed in his attempt to 
imprison me and extract from me the secret. I gave him the kingdom, and left Egypt then 
for centuries. But I knew what the knowledge could do. It was centuries later that I told 
Cleopatra."
  
  He stopped. It was clear that he didn't want to go on. The pain he'd felt in Alexandria 
had returned. The light had gone out of his eyes. They walked back to the carriage in 
silence.
  
  "Julie, let us make this journey fast,"  he said." Tomorrow the Valley of the Kings and 
then we sail south again."
  
  They went at dawn, before the full heat of the sun came down on them.
  
  Julie took Elliott's arm. Ramses was talking again, with spirit, prompted by any 
question Elliott asked, and they took their time on the path, descending through 
desecrated tombs, where the tourists were already thick as well as the photographers and 
the turbaned peddlers in their filthy gellebiyyas, selling trinkets and fakes with 
fantastical claims.
  
  Julie was already suffering from the heat. Her big drowsy straw hat did not help much; 
she had to stop, take a deep breath. The smell of camel dung and urine almost overcame 
her.
  
  A peddler brushed against her and she looked down to see a blackened hand outstretched, 
fingers curling like the legs of a spider.
  
  She screamed before she could stop herself.
  
  "Get away!"  Alex said roughly." These native fellows are intolerable."
  
  "Mummy's hand!"  cried the peddler." Mummy's hand, very ancient!"
  
  "I'm sure,"  Elliott laughed." Probably came from some mummy factory in Cairo."
  
  But Ramses was staring at the peddler and at the hand, as if transfixed. The peddler 
suddenly froze; there was a look of terror in his face. Ramses reached out and grabbed 
the withered hand, and the peddler let it go, stumbling to his knees and then scrambling 
backwards off the path.
  
  "What in the world?"  Alex said." Surely you don't want that thing."
  
  Ramses stared at the hand, at the ragged bits of linen wrapping still clinging to it.
  
  Julie couldn't tell what was wrong. Was he outraged by the sacrilege? Or did the thing 
have some other fascination? A memory swept over her; the mummy in the coffin in her 
father's library, and this living being whom she loved had been that thing. It seemed a 
century had passed since then.
  
  Elliott was watching all this with keen concentration.
  
  "What is it, sire?"  Samir said under his breath. Did Elliott hear it?
  
  Ramses drew out several coins and threw them in the sand for the peddler. The man 
gathered them up and then took off at a dead run. Then Ramses took out his handkerchief, 
neatly covered the hand and slipped it in his pocket.
  
  "And what were you saying?"  Elliott said politely, resuming their conversation as if 
nothing had happened." I believe you were saying that the dominant theme of our time is 
change?"
  
  "Yes,"  Ramses said with a sigh. He appeared to be seeing the valley in an entirely new 
perspective. He stared at the gaping doors of the tombs, at the dogs lying there in the 
morning sun. Elliott went on:
  
  "And the dominant theme of these ancient times was that things would remain the same, 
always."
  
  Julie could see the subtle changes in his face, the faint shadow of despair; yet as 
they moved on, he answered Elliott smoothly.
  
  "Yes, no concept of progress whatsoever. But then the concept of time was not as well 
developed, either. A new count of years began with each King's birth. You know that, of 
course. No one counted time itself in terms of centuries. I'm not sure the simple 
Egyptian had any sense at ail ... of centuries."
  
  Abu Simbel. They had come at last to the greatest of Ramses' temples. The shore 
excursion had been brief on account of the heat, but now the night wind blew cold over 
the desert.
  
  Stealthily Julie and Ramses climbed down the rope ladder into the dinghy. She wrapped 
her shawl tightly over her shoulders. The moon hung perilously low over the shimmering 
water. With the help of a lone native servant, they mounted the camels awaiting them, and 
rode towards the great temple where stood the largest statues of Ramses the Great in 
existence.
  
  It was thrilling to ride this mad, terrifying beast. Julie laughed into the wind. She 
dared not look at the ground moving unevenly beneath her. But she was glad when they came 
to a halt, and Ramses jumped down and reached up to catch her.
  
  The servant took the beasts away. Alone they stood, she and Ramses, under the 
star-filled sky, the desert wind faintly howling. Far off she saw the lighted tent of 
their little camp waiting for them. She saw the lantern shining through the translucent 
canvas; she saw the tiny campfire dancing in the wind, winking out and then reappearing 
in a dazzle of yellow brilliance.
  
  Into the temple they walked, past the giant legs of the Pharaoh god. If there were 
tears in Ramses' eyes, the wind carried them away, but his sigh she heard. The faint 
tremor in his warm hand she felt as she cleaved to him.
  
  They walked on, hand in hand, his eyes roving over the great statues still.
  
  "Where did you go,"  she whispered," when your reign had ended? You gave the throne to 
Meneptah and then you went away. ..."
  
  "All over the world. As far as I dared. As far as any mortal man had dared. I saw the 
great forests of Britannia then. The people wore skins and hid in the trees to shoot 
their wooden arrows. I went to the Far East; I discovered cities which have now 
completely vanished, I was just beginning to understand that the elixir worked on my 
brain as it did on my limbs. The languages I could learn in a matter of days; I could ... 
how do you say ... adapt. But inevitably there came ... confusion,"
  
  "How do you mean?"  she asked. They had stopped. They stood on the hard-packed sand. A 
great soft light from the starry sky illuminated his face as he looked down at her.
  
  "I was no longer Ramses. I was no longer a King. I had no nation."
  
  "I understand."
  
  "I told myself that the world itself was everything. What did I need but to wander, to 
see? But that was not true. I had to come back to Egypt."
  
  "And that is when you wanted to die."
  
  "And I went to the Pharaoh, Ramses the Third, and told him that I had been sent to be 
his guardian. That is, after I learned that no poison could kilt me. Not even fire could 
kill me. Hurt me, yes, beyond endurance, but kill me, no. I was immortal. One draught of 
the elixir had done this to me. Immortal!"
  
  "Oh, the cruelty of it,"  she sighed. But there were things she still did not 
understand, and yet she dared not ask him. Patiently she waited for him to tell her.
  
  "There were many others after my brave Ramses the Third. Great Queens as well as Kings. 
I came when it pleased me. And I was a legend by then-the human phantom who spoke only to 
the rulers of Egypt. It was seen as a great blessing when I appeared. And of course, I 
had my secret life. 1 roamed the streets of Thebes, an ordinary man, seeking companions, 
women, drinking in the taverns."
  
  "But no one knew VOM, or your secret?"  She shook her head." I don't know how you could 
bear it."
  
  "Well, I could bear it no more,"  he said dejectedly," when I finally wrote it down in 
the scrolls your father found in my secret study. But in those early days, I was a braver 
man. And I was loved, Julie. You must realize this."
  
  He paused, as if listening to the wind.
  
  "I was worshipped,"  he went on." It was as if I had died, and become the very thing I 
claimed to be. Guardian of the royal house. Protector of the ruler; punisher of the bad. 
Loyal not to the King, but the kingdom."
  
  "Don't even gods get lonely?"
  
  He laughed softly.
  
  "You know the answer. But you don't understand the full power of the potion that made 
me what I am. I myself do not fully comprehend. Oh, the folly of those first years, when 
I experimented with it like a physician."  A look of bitterness came over his face." To 
understand this world, that's our task, is it not? And even the simple things elude us."
  
  "Yes, I have no quarrel with that,"  she whispered.
  
  "In the hardest moments, I put my faith in change. I understood it, though no one 
around me did." This too shall pass,' the old axiom. But finally I was so ... weary. So 
tired."
  
  He put his arm around her, closing her against him gently, as they turned and made 
their way out of the temple. The wind had died down. He kept her warm. She shaded her 
eyes only now and then from the tiny grains of sand in the air. His voice was quiet, 
slow, as he remembered:
  
  "The Greeks had come into our land. Alexander, the builder of cities, the maker of new 
gods. I wanted only the deathlike sleep. Yet I was afraid, as any mortal man might be."
  
  "I know,"  she whispered. A shiver went through her.
  
</pre>
<!--N=8400 M=8600 pt=-->
  "I made a coward's bargain finally. I'd go into the tomb, into the darkness, which I 
knew by then would mean a gradual weakening and then a deep sleep from which I couldn't 
wake. But the priests who served the royal house would know where I lay, and that 
sunlight could resurrect me. They would give the secret to each new ruler of Egypt with 
the warning that if I were awakened, it must be to serve the good of Egypt. And woe to 
anyone rash enough to wake me for curiosity only, or with evil intentions, because then I 
might take my revenge."
  
  They passed out of the temple doors, stopping as he looked back and up at the colossal 
figures seated there. High above, the King's face was bathed in moonlight.
  
  "Were you conscious at all as you slept?"
  
  "I don't know. I ask myself this question! Now and then I'd come close to waking, of 
that I'm sure. And I dreamed, oh, how I dreamed. But whatever I knew, I knew as if in a 
dream. There was no urgency, no panic. And I could not wake myself, you see. I had no 
strength to pull the chain that would make the great iron-bound wooden shutter above 
admit the sunlight. Maybe I knew what had happened in the world outside. Surely it did 
not surprise me to learn it later. I had become legend-Ramses the Damned; Ramses the 
Immortal, who slept in the cave waiting for a brave King or Queen of Egypt to wake him. I 
don't think they believed it anymore, not really. Until ..."
  
  "She came."
  
  "She was the last Queen to rule Egypt. And the only one to whom I ever told the full 
truth."
  
  "But Ramses, did she really refuse the elixir?"
  
  He paused. It was as if he didn't want to answer. Then:
  
  "In her own way, she refused it. You see, she couldn't understand finally what it was, 
the elixir. Later, she begged me to give it to Mark Antony."
  
  "I see. It's a wonder I didn't guess it."
  
  "Mark Antony was a man who had destroyed his life and hers also. But she didn't know 
what she was asking. She didn't understand. She did not realize what such a thing would 
have meant-a selfish King and Queen with such power. And the formula, they would have 
wanted that too. Would Antony not have wanted immortal armies?"
  
  "Good God!"  she whispered.
  
  Ramses stopped suddenly and moved away from her. They had come some distance from the 
temple and he turned back, looking at the giant seated figures again.
  
  "But why did you write the story in the scrolls?"  she asked. She couldn't stop herself.
  
  "Cowardice, my love. Cowardice, and the dream that someone would come who would find me 
and my strange tale, and take the burden of secrecy from my shoulders! I had failed, my 
love. My strength was gone. And so I slipped into dreams and left the story there ... 
like an offering to fate. I could be strong no longer."
  
  She came to him and threw her arms around him. He didn't look at her. He was looking at 
the statues still. The tears were in his eyes.
  
  "Maybe I dreamed that someday I'd be awakened again, to a new world. To new and wise 
beings. Maybe I dreamed of someone who ... would take the challenge."  His voice broke." 
And I would be the lone wanderer no more. Ramses the Damned would become once again 
Ramses the Immortal."
  
  He looked as if his own words had surprised him. Then he looked down at her and, 
closing his hands tightly on her shoulders, lifted her as he kissed her.
  
  With her whole soul she yielded. She felt his arms gathering her up. She leaned against 
his chest as he carried her towards the tent, and the flickering firelight. The stars 
fell down over the distant shadowy hills. The desert was a great tranquil sea stretching 
out on all sides from this sanctuary of warmth which they now entered.
  
  Incense here; the smell of wax candles. He set her down on silken pillows, on a carpet 
of dark woven flowers. The dancing flames of the candles made her close her eyes. Perfume 
rising from the silk beneath her. A bower he had made, for her, for himself, for this 
moment.
  
  "I love you, Julie Stratford,"  he whispered in her ear." My English Queen. My timeless 
beauty."
  
  His kisses were paralyzing her. She lay back, eyes closed, and let him open her tight 
lace blouse, let him loosen the hooks of her skirt. Luxuriating in this helplessness, she 
let him rip away the chemise and the corset, and pull down the long lace undergarments. 
She lay naked, looking up at him as he knelt over her, peeling off his own garments.
  
  Regal he seemed, his chest gleaming in the light; his sex hard and ready for her. Then 
she felt his delicious weight come down upon her, crushing her. The tears had sprung to 
her eyes, tears of relief. A soft moan escaped her lips.
  
  "Batter down the door,"  she whispered." The virgin door. Open it, I am yours forever."
  
  He went through the seal. Pain; a tiny sputtering pain that burnt itself out in her 
mounting passion immediately. She was kissing him ravenously; kissing the salt and heat 
from his neck, his face, his shoulders. He drove hard into her, over and over again, and 
she arched her back, lifting herself, pressing herself against him.
  
  As the first tide crested she cried out as if she truly would die. She heard the deep 
growl rise from his throat as he came. But it was only the beginning.
  
  Elliott had watched the dinghy pull away. Through his binoculars he saw the tiny light 
of the camp far out over the low, hard-packed dunes. He saw the tiny figure of the 
servant, and the camels.
  
  Then hurrying down the deck, not daring to use his cane for fear of the sound it would 
make, he turned the knob of Ramses' door.
  
  Unlocked. He stepped into the darkened stateroom.
  
  Ah, this thing has made me a sneak and a thief, he thought. But he didn't stop. He did 
not know how long he would have. And now, with only the moon through the portal to light 
his way, he searched the wardrobe full of neatly hung clothes, the bureau drawers of 
shirts and other such things; the trunk which
  
  contained nothing. No secret formula in this room. Unless it was well hidden.
  
  Finally he gave up. He stood over the desk, staring down at the biology books spread 
open there. And then something black and ugly, glimpsed from the comer of his eye, 
frightened him. But it was only the mummy's hand, curled there on the blotter.
  
  How foolish he felt. How ashamed. Yet he stood there staring at the thing, his heart 
knocking dangerously in his chest, and then he felt the burning pain that always followed 
such shocks and the numbness in his arm. He stood quite still, breathing very slowly.
  
  Finally he went out and closed the door behind him.
  
  A sneak and a thief, he thought. And leaning on his silver cane, he walked slowly back 
to the saloon.
  
  It was almost dawn. They had left the warmth of the tent hours ago and come here into 
the deserted temple, with only the loose silk sheets around them. They had made love in 
the sand, over and over. And then he had lain in the dark, looking up at the stars, the 
King who had built this house.
  
  No words now. Only the warmth of his naked body against hers, as he cradled her in his 
left arm. Only the smooth sheet wound tightly around her.
  
  Just before sunrise. Elliott dozed in the chair. He heard the little boat come 
alongside; the lapping; the sound of the ropes creaking as the two lovers came back on 
board. He heard their furtive quick steps on the deck. Silence again.
  
  When he opened his eyes, his son was there in the shadows. Disheveled, as if he had not 
undressed to go to bed, his face unshaven. He watched as his son took a cigarette from 
the ivory box on the table and lighted it.
  
  Then Alex saw him. For a moment, neither said a word, and then Alex smiled the familiar 
congenial smile.
  
  "Well, Father,"  he said slowly." It will be good to get back to Cairo and a little 
civilization."
  
  "You're a good man, my son,"  Elliott said softly.
  
  They must have all known, she realized. She lay beside Ramses beneath die warm blankets 
of her bed, the little steamer moving north again, towards Cairo.
  
  Yet they were being discreet. He came and went only when no one was about. There were 
no displays of affection. Yet they revelled in the freedom they had stolen; until dawn 
they made love, tumbling, struggling, coupling in the dark as the engines of the ship 
carried them ever onward.
  
  Too much to wish for anything more. Yet she did. She wished to be rid of those she 
loved, save for him; she wished to be his bride or to be among those who questioned 
nothing. She knew when they reached Cairo, she would make her decision. And she would not 
see England again, for a long time, unless Ramses wanted it.
  
  Four o'clock. Ramses stood by the bed. She was lovely beyond all reckoning in her 
sleep, her brown hair a great shadow beneath her against the white pillow. Carefully he 
covered her, lest she get cold.
  
  He picked up his moneybelt from the tangle of his coat and pants, and feeling the four 
vials safely taped against the fabric, he put it around his waist again, buckled it and 
then dressed quickly.
  
  No one on the deck. The light burned in the saloon, however. And when he peered through 
the wooden blinds, he saw Elliott fast asleep in the leather wing chair, a book open on 
his knee, a half-filled glass of red wine beside him.
  
  No one else about.
  
  He went into his room, locked the door and closed the little wooden blinds on the 
window. Then he went to his desk, turned on the green shaded lamp, sat down in the wooden 
chair and stared at the mummy's hand which lay there, fingers curled almost to the palm, 
nails yellowed like bits of ivory.
  
  Did he have the stomach for what he meant to do? In ages past, had he not done enough 
of these ghastly experiments? But he had to know. He had to know just how powerful it 
was. He told himself he should wait for laboratories, equipment, wait until he'd mastered 
the chemistry texts; had listened to the learned physicians.
  
  But he wanted to know now. It had come into his mind like an evil light in the Valley 
of the Kings when he had seen the hand, the leathery, shrivelled hand. No fake. He knew 
that. He'd known it the minute he'd examined the bit of bone protruding from the severed 
wrist, the moment he'd seen the black flesh cleaving to it.
  
  Ancient as he was.
  
  He shoved the biology books aside. He placed the thing directly under the lamp, and 
slowly he unwrapped the linen. There, very faintly, he could see the stamp of the 
embalmer- the words in Egyptian which told him the thing was from a dynasty before his 
time. Ah, poor dead soul, who had believed in the gods, and the makers of linen wrappings.
  
  Do not do this. Yet he reached into his shirt, and reached inside the money belt and 
pulled out the half-full vial and opened the cap with his thumb without even consciously 
</pre>
<!--N=8600 M=8800 pt=-->
deciding to do it.
  
  He poured the elixir on the blackened thing. Poured it into the palm, and over the 
stiffened fingers.
  
  Nothing.
  
  Was he relieved? Or disappointed? For a moment he didn't know. He stared at the window, 
where the pale dawn pushed at the blinds, making tiny seams of brightness. Maybe the sun 
was needed for the first effect. Though that had not been so when he'd stood in the cave 
with the priestess. He had felt that powerful alchemy before the sun's rays touched him. 
Of course they had strengthened him immeasurably. And without them, he would have gone 
into the sleep within a few days. But he had not needed them initially.
  
  Well, thank the gods it could not work on an ancient dead thing! Thank the gods the 
horrid potion had its limits.
  
  He drew out a cheroot now and lighted it, and enjoyed the smoke. He poured a little 
brandy in the glass and drank it.
  
  Slowly the room lightened around him. He wanted to creep back into Julie's arms, and 
lie there. But that could not be done by day, he knew it. And the truth was, he liked 
young Savarell enough not to deliberately hurt him. And Elliott, of course, he did not 
want to injure on any count. Very little stood between real friendship with Elliott.
  
  When he heard the first sounds of the others on deck, he capped the vial and slipped it 
back into his moneybelt. He got up to change his clothes. Then suddenly a sound startled 
him.
  
  The cabin was now entirely visible in a bluish morning light. For a moment he dared not 
turn around. Then again he heard that sound! A scratching.
  
  He could feel the blood pounding in his temples. At last he wheeled around and stared 
down at the thing. The hand was alive! The hand was moving. On its back it lay, groping, 
flexing, rocking on the desk, and finally it fell over tike a great scarab onto its five 
legs, and scratched at the blotter.
  
  He found himself shrinking back from it in horror, ft moved forward on the desk, 
groping its way, struggling, and then suddenly it moved over the edge and fell to the 
floor with a thud at his feet.
  
  A prayer in the oldest Egyptian escaped his lips. Gods of the underworld, forgive my 
blasphemy! Trembling violently, he resolved to pick it up, but he could not bring himself 
to do it.
  
  Like a madman he looked around the room. The food, the tray of food that was always 
there for him. There would be a knife. Quickly he found it, a sharp paring knife, and 
grabbing it he stabbed the hand and thrust it down on the desk, its fingers curling as if 
reaching for the very blade.
  
  He flattened it with his left hand and then stabbed it again and again, and finally cut 
the tough leathery flesh and bones into pieces. It was spurting blood, living blood. Ye 
gods, and the pieces were still moving. They were turning pink, the color of healthy 
flesh, in the growing light.
  
  He hurried into the little bathroom, gathered up a towel and came back, and scooped all 
the bloody fragments into it. Then closing the towel over them, he pounded them with the 
handle of the knife, and men with the heavy base of the lamp, the cord of which he'd 
ripped from the socket. He could still feel movement in the bloody mass.
  
  He stood there weeping. Oh, Ramses, you fool! Is there no limit to your folly! Then he 
gathered up the bundle, ignoring the warmth he could feel through the cloth, and went out 
on the deck and emptied the towel over the dark river.
  
  In an instant the bloody little pieces disappeared. He stood there, bathed in sweat, 
the bloody towel hanging from his left hand, and then that too he committed to the deep. 
And the knife as well. And then he settled back against the wall, peering at the far bank 
of golden sand and the distant hills, still a pale violet in the morning.
  
  The years dissolved. He heard the weeping in the palace. He heard his steward screaming 
before he had reached the throne room doors and forced them open.
  
  "It's killing them, my King. They are retching, vomiting it up; they are vomiting blood 
with it."
  
  "Gather it all up, burn it!"  he'd cried." Every tree, every bushel of grain! Throw it 
into the river."
  
  Folly! Disaster.
  
  But he had been only a man of his time, after all. What had the magicians known of 
cells and microscopes and true medicine?
  
  Yet he couldn't stop hearing those cries, cries of hundreds, as they stumbled out of 
the houses; as they came into the public square before the palace.
  
  "They are dying, my King. It's the meat. It is poisoning them."
  
  "Slay the remaining animals."
  
  "But, my King ..."
  
  "Chop them into pieces, do you hear? Throw them into the river!"
  
  He looked down now into the watery depths. Somewhere far upstream, the tiny bits and 
pieces of the hand still lived. Somewhere deep, deep in the muck and mire, the grain 
lived. The bits and pieces of those ancient animals lived!
  
  I tell you it is a horrible secret, a secret that could spelt the end of the world.
  
  He went back into his cabin, and bolting the door, he sank down in the chair at the 
desk, and wept.
  
  It was noon when he came out on deck. Julie was in her favourite chair, reading that 
ancient history which was so full of lies and gaps it made him laugh. She was scribbling 
a question in the margin, which of course she would put to him, and he would answer.
  
  "Ah, you're awake at last,"  she said. And then seeing the expression on his face, she 
asked:" What is it?"
  
  "I'm done with this place. I want to visit the pyramids, the museum, what one must 
visit. And then I want to be gone from here."
  
  "Yes, I understand."  She motioned for him to take the chair beside her." I want to be 
gone, too,"  she said. She gave him a quick, soft kiss on the lips.
  
  "Ah, do that again,"  he said." That comforts me mightily!"
  
  She kissed him twice, slipping her warm fingers around the back of his neck.
  
  "We won't be in Cairo more than a few days, I promise."
  
  "A few days! Can we not take a motor car and see these things, or better yet, simply 
take the train to the coast and be done with it!"
  
  She looked down. She sighed." Ramses,"  she said." You have to forgive me. But Alex, he 
wants badly to see the opera in Cairo. And so does Elliott. I more or less promised we 
would. ..."
  
  He groaned.
  
  "And you see, I want to tell them farewell there. That I'm not going home to England. 
And ... well, I need the time."  She studied his face." Please?"
  
  "Of course,"  he said." This opera. This is a new thing? Something I should see, 
perhaps."
  
  "Yes!"  she said." Well, it's an Egyptian story. But it was written by an Italian fifty 
years ago and especially for the British Opera House in Cairo. I think you'll like it."
  
  "Many instruments."
  
  "Yes."  She laughed." And many voices!"
  
  "All right. I give in."  He bent forward, kissing her cheek, and then her throat." And 
then you are mine, my beauty-mine alone?"
  
  "Yes, on my soul,"  she whispered.
  
  That night when he declined to go ashore at Luxor again, the Earl asked him if his trip 
to Egypt had been a success, if he had found what he wanted.
  
  "I think I did,"  he said, scarcely looking up from his book of maps and countries." I 
think I found the future."
  
  THIS HAD been a Mameluke house, a little palace of sorts, and Henry liked it well 
enough though he wasn't entirely sure what a Mameluke was except they had once been 
rulers of Egypt.
  
  Well, they could have it, as far as he was concerned. But for the moment he was 
enjoying himself and had been for days, and in this little house crammed with Eastern 
exotica and big comfortable old pieces of Victorian furniture, he had just about 
everything he wanted.
  
  Malenka kept him fed on delicious spiced dishes that for some reason he craved when he 
was sick from drink, and which enticed him even when he was very drunk and all other food 
tasted like gruel to him.
  
  And she kept him in booze, taking his winnings into British Cairo and coming back with 
his favourite gin, Scotch, and brandy.
  
  And his winnings had been good for a straight ten days, as he kept the card game going 
from noon until late into the evening. So easy to bluff these Americans who thought all 
British were sissies. The Frenchman he had to watch; that son of a bitch was mean. But he 
didn't cheat. And he paid his debts in full, though where such a disreputable man got the 
money Henry couldn't imagine.
  
  At night, he and Malenka made love in the big Victorian bed, which she loved; she 
thought that was very high class, that bed, with its mahogany headboard and yards of 
mosquito netting. So let her have her little dreams. For the moment, he loved her. He 
didn't care if he never laid eyes on Daisy Banker again. In fact, he had more or less 
made up his mind that he wasn't going back to England.
  
  As soon as Julie and her escorts arrived, he was heading on to America. It had even 
occurred to him that his father might go for that idea, might settle an income on him 
with the understanding mat he stay over there, in New York, or even in California.
  
  San Francisco, now that was a city that had an allure for him. They'd almost completely 
rebuilt it since the earthquake. And he had a feeling he might do well out there, away 
from all that he had come to loathe in England. If he could take Malenka with him, mat 
wouldn't be half-bad either. And out there in California, who would give a damn that her 
skin was darker than his?
  
  Her skin. He loved Malenka's skin. Smoky, hot Malenka. A few times he'd ventured out of 
this cluttered little house and gone to see her dance at the European club. He liked it. 
Who knows? Maybe she might be a celebrity in California, with him managing her, of 
course. That might bring in a little money, and what woman wouldn't want to leave this 
filthy hellhole of a city for America? She was already learning English from the 
gramophone, playing records she had bought in the British sector on her own.
  
</pre>
<!--N=8800 M=9000 pt=-->
  It made him laugh to hear her repeating the inane phrases:" May I offer you some sugar? 
May I offer you some cream?"  She spoke well enough as it was. And she was clever about 
money, that was obvious. Or she wouldn't have managed to keep this house, after her 
half-breed brother left it to her.
  
  Trouble was his father had to be handled carefully. That was why he hadn't left Cairo 
already. Because his father had to believe he was still with Julie, and looking after 
her, and all that utter rot. He'd cabled his father for more money days ago, with some 
silly message that Julie was quite all right. But surely he did not have to follow her 
back to London. That was preposterous. He had to work something out.
  
  Of course there was no rush to leave here, really. The game was going splendidly for 
the eleventh day.
  
  And it had been some time since he'd set foot out of doors, except of course to take 
his breakfast in the courtyard. He liked the courtyard. He liked the world being 
completely shut out. He
  
  liked the little pond, and the tile, and even that screeching parrot of Malenka's, that 
African grey-the ugliest bird he'd ever seen- wasn't entirely uninteresting.
  
  The whole place had a lush, overblown quality that appealed to him. Late at night he'd 
wake up dying of thirst, find his bottle and sit in the front room, amid all the 
tapestried pillows, listening to the gramophone play the records of Afda. He'd blur his 
eyes and all the colours around him would run together.
  
  This was exactly what he wanted life to be. The game; the drink; the utter seclusion. 
And a warm, voluptuous woman who'd strip off her clothes when he snapped his fingers.
  
  He made her dress in her costumes about the house. He liked to see her shining flat 
belly and her mounded breasts over the gaudy purple satin. He liked the big cheap 
earrings she wore, and her fine hair, oh, very fine, he liked to see that down her back 
so that he could grab a handful of it, and tug her gently towards him.
  
  Ah, she was the perfect woman for him. She had his shirts done, and his clothes 
pressed, and saw to it his tobacco never ran out. She brought him magazines and papers 
when he asked for them.
  
  But he didn't care much for that anymore. The outside world didn't exist. Except for 
dreams of San Francisco.
  
  That's why he was so annoyed when they brought a telegram to the door. He never should 
have left this address at Shepheard's. But then he had no choice. How else could he have 
gotten the money his father telegraphed? Or the other telegrams his father had sent? 
Important not to make his father angry until some sort of deal had been struck.
  
  With a cold, nasty expression the Frenchman waited as he tore open the yellow envelope 
and saw that this message wasn't from his father. Rather, it had come from Elliott.
  
  "Damn,"  he whispered." They're on their way here."  He handed it to Malenka." Get my 
suit pressed. I have to go back to the hotel."
  
  "You can't quit now,"  said the Frenchman.
  
  The German took a long drag on his smelly cigar. He was even more stupid than the 
Frenchman.
  
  "Who said I was going to quit?"  Henry said. He upped the ante; then bluffed them out 
one by one.
  
  He'd go to Shepheard's later and see to their rooms. But he wasn't sleeping there. They 
shouldn't expect that of him.
  
  "That's quite enough for me,"  said the German, flashing his yellowed teeth.
  
  The Frenchman would stay there until ten or eleven easily.
  
  Cairo. This had been desert in Ramses' time, though somewhere to the south lay Saqqara, 
where he had come on a pilgrimage once to worship at the pyramid of Egypt's first King. 
And of course he had gone on to visit the great pyramids of the great ancestors.
  
  And so now it was a metropolis, bigger even than Alexandria. And this the British 
sector looked for all the world like a part of London, except that it was too warm. Paved 
streets; neatly clipped trees. Motor cars in profusion, their engines and horns scaring 
the camels, the donkeys, the natives. Shepheard's Hotel-another" tropical"  palace with 
broad porches, replete with wicker, slatted blinds, and vague Egyptian artifacts thrown 
in among the English furnishings, the whole crowded with the same rich tourists he'd seen 
everywhere.
  
  A great advertisement for the opera stood in front of the two ironwork lifts. Alda. And 
such a lurid, vulgar picture of ancient Egyptians entwined in each other's arms amid 
palms and pyramids. And in the foreground in an oval yet another sketch of a modern man 
and woman dancing.
  
  OPERA BALL-OPENING NIGHT-SHEPHEARD'S HOTEL
  
  Well, if this was what Julie wanted. He had to confess he wanted to see a large 
theater, and hear an orchestra of great power. Oh, so many things to see! He had heard 
talk of motion pictures.
  
  But he must endure these last few days on his native soil without complaint. There was 
a good library here, Elliott had said. He'd load up with science textbooks and study, and 
then slip out at night to stand before the Sphinx and speak to the spirits of his 
ancestors.
  
  Not that he believed they were really there. No. He did not. Even in ancient times he 
had not really believed in the gods, perhaps because men called him a god; and so much of 
his stamina had been sapped by ritual. He had known he was no god.
  
  Would a god have struck down the priestess with one great
  
  blow of his bronze sword, after drinking the elixir? But he was not the man who had 
done that thing. Oh, no, if life had taught him nothing else, it had taught him the 
meaning of cruelty.
  
  It was the spirit of modern science that he worshipped now. He dreamed of a laboratory 
in some safe and isolated place, where he could break down the chemical components of the 
elixir. The ingredients he knew, of course. And he knew as well that he could find them 
today as easily as he had found them centuries ago. He had seen the very fish in the 
markets at Luxor. He had seen the very frogs hopping in the marshes along the Nile. The 
plants grew wild still in those marshes.
  
  Ah, to think that such a chemical action came from such simple things. But who would 
have combined them but some ancient magician throwing things in a pot like an old woman 
making a stew?
  
  But the laboratory would have to wait. He and Julie must travel first. And before this 
could begin, she must say her painful farewells. And when he thought of her saying 
farewell to her rich and beautiful world, it sent a coldness through him. Yet whatever 
his fears, he wanted her too much to do anything about them.
  
  And then there was Henry, Henry who had not dared to show his face since their 
return-Henry who had made a gambling den in old Cairo of a belly dancer's house.
  
  The clerks had been most forthcoming with that information. Seems that young Mr. 
Stratford had paid them very little not to talk of his excesses.
  
  But what was Ramses to do with the information, if Julie would not let him act? Surely 
they could not leave the man alive when they departed. But how was it to be accomplished 
so that Julie did not suffer any more pain?
  
  Elliott sat on his bed, his back to the ornate wooden headboard, the veils of mosquito 
netting pinned back on either side of him. It felt good to be settled into a suite at 
Shepheard's.
  
  The pain in his hip was almost unbearable. The long walks at Luxor and Abu Simbel had 
left him utterly exhausted. There was a slight congestion in his lungs, and for days his 
heart had been beating just a little too fast.
  
  He watched Henry in his rumpled linen suit pace the little Tunisian carpet in the 
quaint" Colonial"  bedroom with its old-
  
  fashioned chunky Victorian pieces and Egyptian wall hangings, and the inevitable wicker 
chairs.
  
  Henry now had the look of a round-the-clock drinker, skin waxy as well as florid, hands 
steady because he was now thoroughly fueled with Scotch.
  
  As a matter of fact, his glass was empty and Elliott had not the slightest inclination 
to ask Walter to refill it. Elliott's antipathy for Henry had reached its zenith. The 
man's mumbling, half-incoherent speech left Elliott utterly repelled.
  
  "...no reason in the world why I should make that voyage back with her, she's perfectly 
capable of taking care of herself. And I don't intend to stay here at Shepheard's, 
either..."
  
  "Why are you telling me all this?"  Elliott asked finally." Write to your father."
  
  "Well, I have. It's only you'd be advised not to tell him that I stayed here in Cairo 
while you went on that inane voyage south. You'd be advised to back me up."
  
  "And why is that?"
  
  "Because I know what you're up to."  Henry wheeled around suddenly, eyes glittering 
with drunken drama." I know why you came here. It's got nothing to do with Julie! You 
know that thing's a monster. You realized it during the voyage. You know what I said was 
true about its climbing out of the coffin. ..."
  
  "Your stupidity is beyond belief."
  
  "What are you saying?"  Henry leaned over the footboard, as if he meant to frighten 
Elliott.
  
  "You saw an immortal man rise from his grave, you worthless fool. Why do you run from 
it with your tail between your legs?"
  
  "You're the fool, Elliott. It's unnatural. It's ... monstrous. And if it tries to come 
near me, I shall tell what I know. About it and about you."
  
  "You're losing your memory as well as your mind. You have already told. You were the 
laughingstock of London for twenty-four hours, probably the only real recognition you 
will ever enjoy."
  
  "You think you're so clever, you filthy aristocratic beggar. You dare to put on airs 
with me. Have you forgotten our little weekend in Paris?"  He gave a twisted smile as he 
lifted the empty glass, then saw there was nothing in it." You peddled your title for an 
American fortune. You've peddled your son's title for the Stratford money. And now you're 
chasing after that filthy thing! You believe in this mad, stupid idea of the elixir."
  
  "And you don't?"
  
  "Of course I don't."
  
  "Then how do you explain what you saw?"
  
  Henry paused, eyes working again in that feverish manner which had become shifty." 
There's some trick to it, some twist. But there's no damned chemical that makes people 
live forever. That's insane."
  
  Elliott laughed under his breath." Maybe it was done with mirrors."
</pre>
<!--N=9000 M=9200 pt=-->
  
  "What?"
  
  "The thing coming out of the coffin and trying to strangle you,"  Elliott said.
  
  The contempt in Henry's eyes hardened to hate.
  
  "Maybe I should tell my cousin that you're spying on her, that you want the elixir. 
Maybe I should tell that thing."
  
  "She knows. So does he."
  
  Utterly stymied, Henry looked down into the empty glass.
  
  "Get out of here,"  Elliott said." Go where you please."
  
  "If my father should contact you, leave a message for me at the desk."
  
  "Oh? Am I not supposed to know that you're living with that dancer, Malenka? Everyone 
else knows it. It's the scandal of the moment, Henry in old Cairo with his card game and 
his dancing girl."
  
  Henry sneered.
  
  Elliott looked towards the windows. Soft bright sunshine. He did not look back until 
he'd heard the door close. He waited a few moments, then picked up the telephone and 
asked for the front desk.
  
