  "So fragile, all of you ..."  she whispered.
  
  "I don't understand, dearest."
  
  And so I 'm to be alone, am I? In this wilderness of those who can die! Oh, Ramses, I 
curse you! Yet when she saw the ancient bedchamber again, when she saw the man dying on 
the couch, and the other, immortal, turning his back on her, she saw something she had 
not seen in those tragic moments. She saw that both were human; she saw the grief in 
Ramses' eyes.
  
  Later, when she'd lain as if dead herself, refusing to move or speak, after they'd 
buried Antony, Ramses had said to her:" You were the finest of them all. You were the 
one. You had the courage of a man and the heart of a woman. You had the wits of a King 
and a Queen's cunning. You were the finest. I thought your lovers would be a school for 
you; not your ruin."
  
  What would she say now if she could revisit that chamber? I know. I understand? Yet the 
bitterness welled in her, the dark uncontrollable hatred when she looked at young Lord 
Summer-field walking beside her, this fair and fragile mortal boy-man.
  
  "Dearest, can you confide in me? I've only known you for a short while, but I ..."
  
  "What is it you want to say, Alex?"
  
  "It sounds so foolish."
</pre>
<!--N=14800 M=15000 pt=-->
  
  "Tell me."
  
  "That I love you."
  
  She lifted her hand to his cheek, touched it tenderly with her knuckles.
  
  "But who are you? Where did you come from?"  he whispered. He took her hand and kissed 
it, his thumbs rubbing her palm. A faint ripple of passion softened her all over; made 
the heat throb in her breasts.
  
  "I'll never hurt you, Lord Alex."
  
  "Your Highness, tell me your name."
  
  "Make a name for me, Lord Alex. Call me what you will, if you do not believe the name I 
gave you."
  
  Troubled, his dark brown eyes. If he bent to kiss her, she would pull him down here on 
the stones. Make love to him till he was spent again.
  
  "Regina,"  he whispered." My Queen."
  
  So Julie Stratford had left him, had she? The modern woman who went everywhere on her 
own and did as she pleased. But then it had been a great King who had seduced her. And 
now Alex had his Queen.
  
  She saw Antony again, dead on the couch. Your Majesty, we should take him away now.
  
  Ramses had turned to her and whispered," Come with me!"
  
  Lord Summerfield stoked the heat in her, his mouth on her mouth, oblivious to the 
tourists who passed them. Lord Summerfield, who would die as Antony had died.
  
  Would Julie Stratford be allowed to die?
  
  "Take me back to the bedchamber,"  she whispered." I starve for you, Lord Alex. I shall 
strip the clothes off you here if we don't go."
  
  "Your slave forever,"  he answered.
  
  In the motor car, she clung to him.
  
  "What is it, Your Highness, tell me?"
  
  She looked out at the hordes of mortals passing her; the countless thousands of this 
ancient city, in their timeless peasant robes.
  
  Why had he brought her to life? What had been his purpose? She saw his tearstained face 
again. She saw the picture in which he stood, smiling at the miracle of Camera, with his 
arm around Julie Stratford, whose eyes were dark.
  
  "Hold me, Lord Alex. Keep me warm."
  
  Through the streets of old Cairo, Ramses walked alone.
  
  How could he persuade Julie to get on that train? How could he let her go back to 
London, but then was it not best for her, and mustn't he think of that for once? Had he 
not caused evil enough?
  
  And what about his debt to the Earl of Rutherford; this much he owed the man who had 
sheltered Cleopatra; the man he liked and wanted so to be near, the man whose advice 
would always have been good for him, die man for whom he felt a deep and uncertain 
affection that just might be love.
  
  Put Julie on the train. How could he? His thoughts gave out in confusion. Over and over 
he saw her face. Destroy the elixir. Never brew the elixir again.
  
  He thought of the headlines in the paper. Woman on the floor of the dress shop. / like 
to kill It soothes my pain.
  
  In the old-fashioned Victorian bed in his suite, Elliott slept. He dreamed a dream of 
Lawrence. They were talking together in the Babylon and Malenka was dancing, and Lawrence 
said: It's almost time for you to come.
  
  But I have to go home to Edith. I have to take care of Alex, he had said. And I want to 
drink myself to death in the country. I've already planned it.
  
  I know, said Lawrence, that's what I mean. That won't take very long.
  
  Miles Winthrop didn't know what to make of any of it finally. They had issued a warrant 
for Henry's arrest, but frankly at this moment everything pointed to the possibility that 
the bastard was dead. Clothes, money, identification, all left behind at the scene of 
Malenka's murder. And no telling when the shopkeeper had been killed.
  
  He had a premonition that this whole grisly case might never be solved.
  
  The only thing to be thankful for was that Lord Rutherford was not at the moment his 
sworn enemy. A stigma like that would never be overcome.
  
  Well, at least the day so far had been peaceful. No more hideous corpses with their 
necks broken, staring off as they lay on the slab, saying in a silent whisper, Will you 
not find the one who did this to me?
  
  He dreaded the opera tonight, the continuous questions he would get from the entire 
British community. And he knew that he could not take refuge in Lord Rutherford's shadow. 
On the contrary, he dreaded another run-in. He would keep to himself.
  
  Seven o'clock.
  
  Julie stood before the mirror in her sitting room. She had put on the low-cut gown that 
violently disturbed Ramses, but then she had no other appropriate clothing for this inane 
occasion. As she watched Elliott through the mirror, he fastened her pearls at the back 
of her neck.
  
  Elliott always looked better than almost anyone around him. Trim, still handsome at 
fifty-five, he wore white tie and tails as if they were entirely natural to him.
  
  And it struck her as faintly horrible that they could resume like this, as if nothing 
had happened. They might as well have been in London; Egypt was a nightmare suddenly; 
only Julie was not ready to wake up.
  
  "And so here we are in our feathers,"  she said," ready to do our ritual dance."
  
  "Remember, until he's apprehended, which he won't be, we have every right to presume 
he's innocent. And carry on as if he were."
  
  "It's monstrous and you know it."
  
  "It's necessary."
  
  "For Alex, yes. And Alex hasn't seen fit to call us all day. As for myself, it doesn't 
matter."
  
  "You have to go back to London,"  he said." I want you to go back to London."
  
  "I'll always love you,"  she said." You're flesh and blood to me, really, you always 
have been. But what you want doesn't matter anymore."  She turned around.
  
  Up close she could see the evidence of the strain in him; he'd aged, the way Randolph 
had suddenly aged when he'd heard of Lawrence's death. He was as handsome as ever, but 
now there was a tragic quality to it; a certain philosophical sadness had replaced the 
old twinkle in his eye.
  
  "I can't go back to London,"  she said." But I will get Alex on that train."
  
  Destroy the elixir. He stood before the mirror. He had put on most of the required 
garments, taken from the trunk of Lawrence Stratford-the shining black trousers, shoes, 
belt. Naked from the waist up, he stared at his own reflection. The money-belt girded him 
as it had since he left London. And the vials gleamed in their canvas pockets.
  
  Destroy the elixir. Never use it again.
  
  He lifted the stiff white shirt and put it on carefully, working the impossible 
buttons. He saw Elliott Savarell's drawn and weary face. You will persuade Julie to go 
back to London-until this is over,
  
  Beyond the windows, the city of Cairo seethed quietly with the great noise of modern 
cities, a sound he had never heard in ancient times.
  
  Where was she, the dark-haired queen with the violent blue eyes? He saw her again, 
sighing under him, her head thrown back on the pillows, same flesh." Suckle me!"  she'd 
cried out as she had done so long ago; back arched like a cat. And then the smile on her 
face; a stranger's smile.
  
  "Yes, Master Alex,"  Walter said into the telephone," to suite two-oh-one, I'll bring 
your clothes right away. But do call your father in Miss Stratford's suite. He's eager to 
get in touch with
  
  you. He's worried that he hasn't seen you all day. So much has happened, Master Alex-" 
But the connection was already broken. Quickly he rang Miss Stratford. No answer. He had 
no time. He had to hurry with the clothes.
  
  Cleopatra stood at the window. She had dressed in the gorgeous gown of pure silver 
which she had taken from the poor woman in the little shop. Ropes of pearls fell down 
over the swell of her breasts. She had never done her hair properly; in a dark black veil 
it hung down about her, moist still from the bath, and full of perfume, and she liked it. 
It made her smile bitterly to think it was like being a girl again.
  
  Running through the palace gardens, her hair her cloak.
  
  "I like your world, Lord Alex,"  she said as she watched the winking lights of Cairo 
under the paling evening sky. The stars seemed so lost above this dazzling splendour. 
Even the headlamps moving through the streets had a soothing beauty." Yes, I like your 
world. I like everything about it. I want to have money and power in it; and for you to 
be at my side."
  
  She turned. He was staring at her as if she'd hurt him. She ignored the knock at the 
door.
  
  "Dearest, those things don't always go hand in hand in my world,"  he said." Lands, a 
title, education-these I have, but money I do not."
  
  "Don't worry,"  she said, so relieved it was only that." I shall acquire the wealth, my 
lord, that's nothing. Not when one is invulnerable. But there are some scores I must 
settle first. I must hurt someone who has hurt me. I must take from him ... what he took 
from me."
  
  The knock sounded again. As if waking from a dream, he took his eyes off her and went 
to the door. A servant. His evening clothes had come.
  
  "Your father's already left, sir. Your tickets will be at the box office under his 
name."
  
  "Thank you, Walter."
  
  There was barely time for him to dress. As he shut the door, he looked at her again, 
curiously, with that little touch of sadness.
  
  "Not now,"  she said, quickly kissing him." And we may use these tickets, may we not?"  
</pre>
<!--N=15000 M=15200 pt=-->
She picked up off the dressing table the pair she'd stolen from the poor dead boy in the 
alleyway, the little papers which said" Admit One."
  
  "But I want you to meet my father, I want you to meet all of them. I want them to meet 
you."
  
  "Of course you do, and I shall, soon enough. But let us be alone somewhere lost in the 
crowd so that we can be together. We shall see them when it suits us. Please?"
  
  He wanted to protest, but she was kissing him, stroking his hair again." Let me have a 
chance to see your lost love Julie Stratford from a distance."
  
  "Oh, but none of that matters now,"  he said.
  
  8
  
  ANOTHER MODERN palace-the Opera House, swarming with bejeweled women in gowns the 
colours of the rainbow, and the men beside them, elegant in white and black. How curious 
it was, all colours belonging to the females. The males wore uniforms, it seemed, each 
perfectly identical with the other. She blurred her eyes, to see the reds and blues 
dancing independently of all detail.
  
  She watched the great surge up the grand staircase. She felt admiring glances on her; 
the soft glaze of admiration like a light on her skin.
  
  Lord Summerfield beamed at her with pride and affection. "You are the Queen here,"  he 
whispered, cheeks flushed again for an instant. He turned to one of the merchants 
peddling strange little instruments the purpose of which she couldn't guess.
  
  "Opera glasses,"  he said as he handed them to her." And the program, yes, please."
  
  "But what are they?"  she asked.
  
  He gave a startled little laugh." You did fall from heaven, didn't you?"  His lips 
touched her neck and then her cheek." Put them to your eyes, adjust them until they come 
into focus. Yes, that's it. You see?"
  
  She was shocked. She jumped back as the people on the upper gallery appeared to loom 
over her.
  
  "What a curious tiling. What makes it happen?"
  
  "Magnification,"  he said." Pieces of glass."  How delighted
  
  he seemed that she'd never heard of it. She wondered how Ramses had mastered all these 
little secrets; Ramses, whose" mysterious tomb"  had been discovered only a month ago by 
"poor Lawrence,"  who was now dead. Ramses, who told" in the scrolls"  of his love for 
Cleopatra. Was it really possible that Alex didn't know that the mummy and his nemesis 
Ramsey were the same?
  
  But how could he grasp it? With only the inane story of the disreputable cousin to link 
the two? Had she believed when the old priest had led her into the cave?
  
  Chimes sounded. "The opera's going to begin."
  
  They moved up the stairs together. It seemed to her a brilliant light surrounded both 
of them, separated them from others, and others could see this light, and cast their 
glances carefully, perceiving that it was love. Love. She did love him; it was not a 
full-blooded love such as she'd known for Antony; that hurtling through darkness and 
destruction because one cannot resist another, one cannot live with him or without him, 
and one goes on, knowing full well that one is being destroyed.
  
  No, this was a newborn love, fresh and gentle as Alex was, but it was love. Julie 
Stratford had been a fool not to love him; but then Ramses could seduce the goddess Isis. 
Had there not been Antony, she would never have loved anyone but Ramses. That he had 
always understood.
  
  Ramses the father, the judge, the teacher; Antony the bad boy with whom she'd run away. 
Playing in the royal bedchamber like children; drunk; mad; answerable to no one; until 
Ramses had appeared after all those years.
  
  This is what you've done with your freedom? Your life?
  
  The question was, what would she do with her freedom now? Why did the pain not cripple 
her? Because this newborn world was too magnificent. Because she had what she had dreamed 
of in those last few months, when the Roman armies swarmed over Egypt, when Antony was 
desperate and full of delusions: another chance. Another chance, without the weight of a 
love that was dragging her down into those dark waves forever; another chance without a 
hatred for Ramses, who wouldn't save her doomed lover; who wouldn't forgive her for being 
doomed herself.
  
  "Your Highness, I'm losing you again,"  he said intimately.
  
  "No, you're not,"  she said. The lights swam around her." I'm with you, Lord Alex."  
The high crystal light fixture above was full of tiny sparkling rainbows; she could hear 
the faint tinkle of glass as it moved in the breeze from the open doors.
  
  "Oh, but look, there they are!"  Alex said suddenly, pointing up to where the banister 
curved and ran away from the top of die stairs.
  
  The noise died around her; the lights; the crowds, the soft communal excitement. Ramses 
stood there!
  
  Ramses in modem raiment, and beside him the woman, of considerable beauty, young and 
fragile as Alex was fragile, her auburn hair brushed exquisitely back from her face. A 
flash of dark eyes as she looked at them and did not see them. And Lord Rutherford, dear 
Lord Rutherford, struggling on his silver cane. Did Ramses really fool the mortals around 
him? This giant of a man, his face glistening with immortal vigour, hair a tousled mane. 
And the woman-she had not been given it. She was mortal still. Desperately, fearfully, 
she clung to Ramses' arm.
  
  "Darling, not now,"  she begged.
  
  Onward the party moved, the crowd swallowing them.
  
  "But dearest, just to tell them that we're here. Why, this is splendid, it means 
Ramsey's been cleared. Everything's back to normal. Pitfield worked the miracle."
  
  "Give me this time, Alex, I beg you!"  Had her tone become imperious?
  
  "All right, Your Highness,"  he said with a forgiving smile.
  
  Away from them! She felt desperate, as if she were suffocating. Reaching the top of the 
stairs, she glanced back. They had gone into a far doorway draped with velvet. And Alex 
was taking her in another direction. Thank the gods for this.
  
  "Well, it seems we're at the opposite end of the dress circle,"  he said to her, 
smiling." But how can you be so shy when you're so lovely? When you're more beautiful 
than any woman I've ever beheld?"
  
  "I'm jealous of you, of the hours we've spent together. Believe me, the world will ruin 
it, Lord Alex."
  
  "Ah, that's not possible,"  he said with utter innocence.
  
  Elliott stood at the curtained doorway." Where on earth can Alex be? What could possess 
him to wander off at a time like this? Oh, this is past all patience."
  
  "Elliott, Alex is the least of our worries!"  Julie said." He's probably found another 
American heiress. The third consecutive love of his life in one week."
  
  Elliott gave a faintly bitter smile as they went on into the box. The woman he'd 
glimpsed in the car had been all hat, ribbons and hair flying. Maybe it was just the bit 
of good fortune his son required.
  
  A curved tier; a giant amphitheatre save it was covered over; and only one-half of the 
oval. At the far end lay the stage, obviously, hidden by a wall of soft shimmering 
curtains; and sunk beneath and before it, a gathering of men and women making horrid 
sounds with their stringed instruments and horns. She put her hands to her ears.
  
  Alex led her down the little step to the front row of this small section. The soft red 
chairs at the railing were theirs. She turned to her left. Across the dimly lighted gulf 
she saw Ramses! She saw the pale-faced woman, with large sad eyes. Lord Rutherford had 
settled directly behind them; and at his arm was a dark-skinned Egyptian, beautifully 
clad as the other men.
  
  She tried to take her eyes off them; she did not fully understand the tumult inside 
her, as she continued to stare. Then Ramses put his arm around the woman. He embraced her 
tightly as if to comfort her, and the woman lowered her eyes, and there was a sudden 
glisten of tears on her cheeks! Ramses kissed this woman, and the woman, inclining 
towards him, returned his kiss!
  
  How the pain passed through her as she saw this! It was like a knife travelling down 
her face suddenly, slicing her open. She turned her head, shaken; staring before her in 
the dark.
  
  It seemed she would have cried out if she could. But why, what did she feel? A hatred 
for the woman swelled inside her; burning her. Give Antony the elixir.
  
  Suddenly the great theatre went dark. A man appeared before the audience; applause 
broke out all around her, then rose in a deafening noise. Like so much in modem times, it 
was overwhelming yet strangely contained.
  
  The man bowed, lifted his hands, then turned and faced the musicians, who had become 
quiet and still. At his signal, they played in concert; the sound rose, huge and searing 
and beautiful.
  
  It seemed to touch her, this sound. She felt Alex's hand cover her hand. The sound 
surrounded her, swept her away from her pain suddenly.
  
  "Modem times,"  she whispered. Was she too weeping? She did not want to hate! She did 
not want this pain! In memory again, she saw Ramses above her in the darkness; had it 
been a tomb? She felt the elixir filling her mouth. And then he backed away from her in 
terror. Ramses. But was she sorry that he had done it? Could she really curse him? She 
was alive!
  
  Elliott ducked outside the curtain into the lighted foyer behind the box, to read the 
note in the electric light.
  
  "It was at the desk at Shepheard's, sir,"  said the boy, waiting for the coin which 
Elliott fished from his pocket and held out.
  
  Father, will see you at the opera or at the ball afterwards. Sorry to be so mysterious, 
but have met the most entrancing female companion. Alex.
  
  Infuriating. But so be it! He went back into the darkened hall.
  
  Ramses hadn't thought it possible to enjoy this spectacle. He was furious still with 
Elliott that he had been dragged here against his will. And indeed, the opera would have 
been ludicrous had it not been so beautiful-the fat" Egyptian"  figures down there 
singing in Italian against a backdrop of painted temples and statues which appeared to be 
utterly grotesque. But the melodies overcame him, even as they worsened Julie's pain. 
Julie leaned against his shoulder in the privacy of the darkness. The lovely voices 
rising in the gloom touched his heart. These hours wouldn't be the agony he had imagined; 
it even occurred to his cowardly soul that perhaps Cleopatra had fled Cairo, that she was 
lost now in the modern world, beyond all hope of his finding her. And this both released 
him and terrified him. What would her loneliness be as the weeks and months passed; what 
would her rage demand?
  
  She lifted the magical opera glasses. She peered at Ramses and Julie, astonished at the 
</pre>
<!--N=15200 M=15400 pt=-->
intimate focus. The woman was crying, no doubt of it. Her dark eyes were fixed on the 
stage, where the ugly little man sang the beautiful song," Celeste Aida,"  his voice 
enormous, the melody enough to break the heart.
  
  She was about to put down the glasses when suddenly Julie Stratford whispered something 
to her partner. They rose together, Julie Stratford hurrying through the curtain, and 
Ramses following.
  
  Quickly, Cleopatra touched Alex's hand.
  
  "You stay here,"  she whispered in his ear.
  
  He seemed to think it quite the normal thing. He didn't try to stop her. She hurried 
through the alcove behind their little section of the theatre, and moved slowly and 
cautiously out into the grand room of the second floor.
  
  It was almost empty. Servants behind a marble-top counter poured drinks for a few old 
men who looked quite miserable in their black-and-white uniforms, one of them pulling at 
his collar in obvious annoyance.
  
  At a far table, against a great arched window hung with tapestried drapery, Julie 
Stratford and Ramses talked in whispers that she could not possibly hear. She moved 
closer, behind a stand of potted trees, and lifted the opera glasses, bringing their 
faces close again; but not the words.
  
  Julie Stratford shook her head, recoiling. Ramses held her hand, he would not let her 
go. What was she saying with such passion? And how he pleaded with her; she knew that 
authority, that insistence, but Julie Stratford was strong just as she herself had been 
strong.
  
  Suddenly Julie Stratford rose, clutching a small bag in her hand, and walked swiftly 
away with her head bowed. Ramses was in despair. He rested his forehead on his hand.
  
  Swiftly, she followed after Julie Stratford, cleaving to the wall, praying that Ramses 
did not look up.
  
  Julie Stratford passed through a wooden door.
  
  POWDER ROOM
  
  She was confused, uncertain. Suddenly a voice spoke to her; it was a young servant.
  
  'Looking for the ladies' room, miss? It's right there." "Thank you,"  she said, and she 
went towards it. It was obviously a public room.
  
  Thank God, the powder room was empty. Julie sat down at the last velvet stool before 
the long dressing table, and merely rested for a moment, her hand covering her eyes.
  
  The thing was out there, the monster, the creation, whatever one could call such a 
being; and they were locked in this stupid auditorium listening to music, as if horrors 
had not been committed, as if they would not be committed again.
  
  But the worst of it was Ramses pushing it to this conclusion between them, holding her 
hand and telling her that he couldn't bear to lose her.
  
  And she, she had burst out with it:" I wish I'd never laid eyes on you. I wish you had 
let Henry do his work."
  
  Had she meant it? He'd hurt her wrist as he held her; it was hurting her now as she 
cried softly in this quiet room, her softest murmurs echoing off the cold mirrored walls.
  
  "Julie,"  he'd said," it was a horrible thing I did, yes, I know. But I'm speaking now 
of you and me. You're alive, you're whole and beautiful, soul and body united-"
  
  "No, don't say it,"  she'd pleaded.
  
  "Take the elixir, and come with me, forever."
  
  She had been unable to remain there. She'd broken away and run. And now alone in this 
room she wept. She tried to quiet her soul; she tried to think, but she could not. She 
told herself that she must envision her life, years from now, when this seemed a dark 
adventure that she would confide only to those she dearly loved. She would tell of the 
mysterious man who had come into her life... But this was unbearable.
  
  As the door of the powder room opened, she covered her face with her handkerchief, 
keeping her head down, trying only to be calm; to breathe."
  
  How dreadful to be noticed now, when she wanted to withdraw and go back alone to the 
hotel. And this other woman who had come in, why in the world was she sitting so close to 
her, right on the next stool? She turned her head away to the right. She had to get a 
grip on herself. Get through this night somehow for Elliott, though she was losing faith 
in the meaning of any sustained direction. She folded the handkerchief, the miserable 
little ruin of lace and linen now soaked with tears, and blotted her eyes.
  
  Almost by accident she looked up into the mirror. Was she losing her mind! The woman 
directly on her left was staring at her with great ferocious blue eyes. Why, the woman 
was scarcely inches from her, and what a creature she was, with all her long rippling 
black hair pouring down over her naked shoulders and her back.
  
  She turned and faced the woman, drawing back as far as she could on the stool, her hand 
out to the mirror to brace herself.
  
  "Good Lord!"  A shock went through her; she was trembling so violently, she couldn't 
hold her hand steady!
  
  "Oh, you are lovely, yes,"  said the woman in a low, perfect British accent." But he 
has not given you his precious elixir. You're mortal. There's no doubt."
  
  "Who are you!"  she gasped. But she knew.
  
  "Do you call it by another name?"  the woman said, pressing in on her, the strong, 
beautifully modeled face looming over her, the rippling black hair seeming to eat the 
very light." Why has he waked me from my sleep and not given the magic potion to you?"
  
  "Leave me alone!"  Julie whispered; violent tremors coursed through her. She tried to 
rise, but the woman had forced her securely into the comer. In panic, she almost screamed.
  
  "So alive you are nevertheless,"  the woman whispered." Young, delicate, like a flower; 
so easy to pick."
  
  Julie sank back against the mirrored wall. If she shoved the woman, could she knock her 
off balance? It seemed a virtual impossibility; and once again, as she had when Ramses 
rose from the coffin, she felt she was going to faint.
  
  "It seems monstrous, does it not?"  the woman went on in the same clipped British 
accent." That I should pluck this flower because what I loved was allowed to die. What 
have you to do with the loss suffered so long ago? Julie Stratford for Antony. It seems 
unfair."
  
  "God help me!"  Julie gasped." God help us both, you and me. Oh, please let me go."
  
  The woman's hand flew towards her, grabbing her about the throat; she couldn't bear it, 
the fingers closing out her life's breath; her head struck the mirror behind her, once, 
twice. She was losing consciousness.
  
  "Why should I not kill you! You tell me!"  came the seething voice in her ear.
  
  The hand suddenly let her go. Gasping, she fell forward over me dressing table.
  
  "Ramses!"  she screamed, the breath rushing out of her." Ramses!"
  
  The door of the powder room opened; two women stopped dead in their confusion. Beside 
her, Cleopatra rose from the table and plunged past them, knocking one of them to the 
side. In a flurry of streaming black hair and shimmering silver cloth she vanished.
  
  Julie fell sobbing to the floor.
  
  People shouting; hurried footsteps. An old woman with soft wrinkled hands was helping 
her to her feet.
  
  "Have to get to Ramses,"  she said. She struggled towards the door. The other women 
tried to stop her. She should sit down." Someone get a glass of water!" "No, let me go!"
  
  Finally she reached the door, and forced her way through it, through the small knot of 
ushers gathered. Ramses came rushing towards her; she collapsed in his arms.
  
  "She was there,"  she gasped in his ear." She spoke to me. She touched me."  She moved 
her hand to her aching throat." She ran away when the others came in."
  
  "What is it, miss?"
  
  "Miss Stratford, what happened?"
  
  "No, I'm all right now."  He almost lifted her off her feet, and carried her away from 
them.
  
  "Well, all I saw was another woman with her; yes, a tall woman, black hair."
  
  Into the foyer of the box, he led her, a quiet private space. She tried to clear her 
vision; Elliott and Samir stood over her suddenly, and the music, the music was a ghastly 
din pouring through the curtains. Samir filled a glass with champagne for her. How 
absurd! Champagne.
  
  "Here in the auditorium somewhere. Dear God, she was like a terrible angel! A goddess! 
Ramses, she knew me, my name. She knew me. She spoke of vengeance for Antony. Ramses, she 
knew who I was!"
  
  His face was a mask of rage. He started for the door. She grabbed hold of him, knocking 
the champagne glass over." No, don't go! Don't leave my side!"  she whispered." She could 
have killed me. She wanted to. But then she couldn't. Ramses! She's a living, feeling 
creature! Oh, God, what have you done, what have/done!"
  
  A bell had sounded within the auditorium. People were streaming out into the open 
spaces. And Alex would be searching for her; and perhaps he would find them.
  
  She could not clear her head; she could not bring herself to move.
  
  She stood on the high iron balcony, above the iron steps that descended to a dark, 
neglected alleyway, the door open to me lights and the noise to her right. The city was a 
haze of soft
  
  lamps and rooftops, of shining domes, and towers piercing the deep azure sky. She could 
not see the Nile from here, but it didn't matter. The air was cool and sweet; full of the 
scent of the green trees below.
  
  Suddenly, she heard his voice:
  
  "Your Highness, I've been searching for you everywhere."
  
  "Hold me, Alex,"  she whispered." Hold me in your arms."  She took a deep breath as she 
felt him close to her, his warm hands on her. Gently he moved her back to sit on the iron 
steps that went upward to yet another balcony above.
  
  "You're ill,"  he said." I must get something for you to drink."
  
  "No, stay close to me,"  she said. She knew her voice was barely audible. She stared 
out at the lights of the city almost desperately. She wanted somehow to cling to this 
vision of the modern city; to move towards it mentally out of her anguish. It was her 
only escape. That and the boy beside her, the clean innocent male thing that held her and 
kissed her.
</pre>
<!--N=15400 M=15600 pt=-->
  
  "What do I do?"  she murmured in the old Latin." Is it grief I feel, or rage? I only 
know it's suffering."
  
  She was torturing him, but she didn't mean to. Had he understood her words?
  
  "Open your heart to me,"  he said earnestly." I love you, Your Highness. Tell me what's 
troubling you. I won't let anything hurt you. If it's in my power to stop it, I shall."
  
  "I believe you, young lord,"  she said." I feel love for you too."
  
  But what was it she wanted? Would revenge cure the rage that was tearing her apart? Or 
should she retreat now, taking young Lord Alex with her, and move as far away from her 
mentor, her creator, as she could? It seemed for one moment the ache in her would consume 
everything-thought, hope, will. But then she realized something and it was like the sun 
again, the warm sun.
  
  To love and to hate so fiercely, it was the essence of life itself. And life she had 
again with all its blessings and all its pain.
  
  The last act was nearing the end. Elliott sat staring dully at the beautiful stage, the 
doomed lovers suffocating in the tomb, Amneris the princess praying above.
  
  Thank God it was almost finished! Verdi at his finest seemed absolutely ludicrous under 
these circumstances. As for the ball, they would pass through it for no more than a 
moment or two before taking Julie to her room.
  
  Julie was on the verge of collapse. She sat still in the foyer of the box behind him, 
shivering, clinging to Ramses.
  
  She'd refused to let Ramses leave her; so Elliott and Samir had searched the crowds at 
the intermissions. They had moved up and down the staircase, looking for the woman whom 
only Elliott would surely recognize, but whom Samir could spot for her flowing hair and 
silver gown.
  
  She was nowhere to be found. And it wasn't surprising. She may well have left the hall 
altogether after the brief attack. The mystery was: how did she know about Julie! How had 
she found Julie here!
  
  Another maddening aspect of all this was that they had not found Alex either! But 
perhaps that was a blessing in disguise. Alex remained somehow miraculously untouched by 
what had happened. Maybe he could be taken home with no further explanations, yet that 
seemed too much to expect.
  
  There was no doubt in Elliott's mind now that Julie would be on that noon train 
tomorrow with Alex. He himself would remain in Cairo until this thing was seen to the 
finish. Samir would go back to London with Julie, it had already been decided; for Alex 
surely couldn't protect her or comfort her, since he did not know and must not know what 
was going on.
  
  Samir would stay with Julie in Mayfair until Ramses returned. What good Elliott would 
be was uncertain. But he would remain. He had to. And Julie had to be taken far, far away.
  
  The last heartrending duet of the opera was at its most poignant. He could not bear it 
for much longer. He lifted his opera glasses and began scanning the hall. Alex, where the 
hell are you! He scanned the left side of the dress circle slowly, and then gradually 
turned to the right.
  
  Grey heads, sparkling diamonds; men half-asleep, mouths agape under white mustaches. 
And a gorgeous woman with black rippling hair over her shoulders walking quickly down to 
the front row of a far box, her hand in Alex's hand.
  
  He froze.
  
  He turned the little dial on the glasses, bringing the image even closer. The woman had 
settled down on Alex's left, but the curve of the dress circle placed them both clearly 
in view! Don't have a heart attack now, Elliott, not after all you've been through. Alex 
turned and kissed the woman's cheek as she stared at the stage-the tomb, the doomed 
lovers-and then in a little silent frenzy she turned to Alex with heartbroken eyes and 
nestled into the crook of his arm.
  
  "Ramsey,"  he whispered. He had disturbed those around him, even woken up somebody in 
the next box. But Ramsey had heard him and had come through the curtain, kneeling down 
beside his seat.
  
  "There, look! With Alex; it's she."  The whisper was a gasp. Shoving the opera glasses 
at Ramsey, he stared at the two distant figures. He didn't need the glasses to see that 
Cleopatra had lifted her own and was staring at them!
  
  He heard Ramsey's low moan of distress.
  
  Alex had turned. Alex was making a little cheerful gesture to them, a discreet little 
wave with his left hand.
  
  The last dying notes of the duet ended. Applause broke out all around them. The 
inevitable" Bravos!"  came from all directions. The house lights were rising. People were 
climbing to their feet.
  
  Julie and Samir stood in the open doorway.
  
  "What is it!"  Julie demanded.
  
  "They're leaving. I'm going after them!"  Ramses said.
  
  "No!"  Julie cried.
  
  "Julie, she's with Alex Savarell,"  Ramsey said." She has ensnared the Earl's son! Both 
of you, stay with Julie. Take Julie back to the hotel."
  
  He knew it was no good as soon as he had reached the box. They were gone. At least 
three exits opened on iron stairways down the side of the building. And people were using 
all of them. He rushed along the mezzanine, scanning those who descended the grand 
stairway. Not a chance of finding them now. He was at the front doors when Elliott, Samir 
and Julie came down the stairs. Julie looked like the ghost of herself, clinging to 
Samir. Elliott was clearly drawing upon the very last of his stamina, and his face had 
turned a deathly white.
  
  "It's no use,"  Ramses explained." They are lost again." "Our only chance then is the 
ball,"  Elliott said." It's a game, don't you see! Alex doesn't understand what's 
happening. He said he would meet us here, or at the ball."
  
  THEY HAD followed the flow of the guests, streaming out of the Opera House, and walking 
across the broad square towards the hotel.
  
  There was no doubt in her mind that Ramses was following them. Undoubtedly Lord 
Rutherford would come in the hope of rescuing his son.
  
  She made no decision as to what she should do. The meeting was inevitable. Words must 
be spoken; and beyond that? She saw only freedom, but she did not know where she must go 
or what she must do to be free.
  
  Killing the other, that was not the answer. A great revulsion rose in her against all 
the lives she'd thoughtlessly taken-even the life of the man who had fired the gun at 
her, whoever he had been.
  
  Solving the riddle of why Ramses had resurrected her; of how precisely he'd done 
it-that must be part of what she had to do. But maybe she should run from that and run 
from him.
  
  She glanced at the motor cars nosing their way up the circular drive before the 
entrance of Shepheard's. Why couldn't they run away, she and Alex, right now? There was 
time enough, wasn't there, for her to seek her old teacher, this man who had dominated 
all of her mortal life, and had now re-created her for reasons she couldn't understand?
  
  And for one second a dreadful foreboding shook her. She clasped Alex's hand all the 
more tightly. There came his reassuring smile again. She said nothing. Her mind was 
confusion as they entered the bright hotel lobby and followed the crowds up another grand 
stairway.
  
  The ballroom opened before them on the second floor, a vast space far larger than the 
ballroom she had seen last night below. Linen-draped tables lined the walls on either 
side; and the room itself seemed to go on forever, music surging from an orchestra now 
hidden by the milling crowd.
  
  Gold draperies hung from the high-panelled ceiling. How these people loved plaster 
ornament; doors and windows were covered with it, as if with carefully sculpted whipped 
cream. Couples had already begun to dance to the music. Light appeared to drip from the 
great tinkling glass fixtures. Young servants moved about offering white wine in 
exquisite glasses from silver trays.
  
  "How are we going to find them?"  Alex said." Oh, I'm so eager for them to meet you."
  
  "Are you?"  she whispered." And if they fail to approve your choice, Lord Alex, what 
will you do?"
  
  "What a strange thing to say,"  he said with characteristic innocence." They can't 
fail. And it doesn't matter finally whether or not they do."
  
  "I love you, Lord Alex. I didn't think that I would when I first saw you. I thought you 
were pretty and young and that it would be lovely to have you in my arms. But I love you."
  
  "I know perfectly what you are saying,"  he whispered, with a strange look in his 
eyes." Does that surprise you?"  It seemed he wanted desperately to say something else to 
her but could not find the words. That sadness came; the little shadow of sadness she'd 
seen in him from the beginning, and for the first time she realized it was something in 
her which aroused it; it was a response to something he saw in her face.
  
  Someone called his name. His father calling. She knew the voice before she turned to 
see for herself." Remember, I love you, Alex,"  she said again. She had the strangest 
feeling that she was saying farewell. Too innocent, those were the only words that came 
clear to her.
  
  Turning, she saw them all moving towards her from the open doors.
  
  "Father, and Ramsey! Ramsey, old man,"  Alex said," I'm so glad to see you."
  
  In a dream she watched them, Alex pumping Ramses' hand and Ramses staring at her.
  
  "My darling."  Alex's voice sought to reach her." Let me present my father, and my 
dearest friends. Why, Your Highness-" He broke off suddenly. And in a low whisper he 
confided," I don't even know your real name."
  
  "Yes, you do, my beloved,"  she said." I told you when first we met. It's Cleopatra. 
Your father knows me and so does your good friend Ramsey, as you call him. And I have met 
your friend Julie Stratford as well."
  
  She fixed her gaze on Lord Rutherford; the music and the noise of the crowd was a roar 
in her ears.
  
  "Allow me to thank you, Lord Rutherford, for your recent kindness to me. What would I 
have done without you? And I was so unkind in return."
  
  The feeling of foreboding grew stronger. She was doomed if she remained in this room. 
Yet she stood there, her hand trembling as she held on to Alex, who looked from her to 
his father in complete confusion." Why, I don't understand; you mean you've met?"
  
