<!--N=0 M=200 pt=-->
 Anne Rice
 The Mummy or Ramses the Damned
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  PART 1
  
  THE CAMERA flashes blinded him for a moment. If only he could get the photographers 
away.
  
  But they had been at his side for months now-ever since the first artifacts had been 
found in these barren hills, south of Cairo. It was as if they too had known. Something 
about to happen. After all these years, Lawrence Stratford was on to a major find.
  
  And so they were there with the cameras, and the smoking flashes. They almost knocked 
him off balance as he made his way into the narrow rough-hewn passage towards the letters 
visible on the half-uncovered marble door.
  
  The twilight seemed to darken suddenly. He could see the letters, but he couldn't make 
them out.
  
  "Samir,"  he cried." I need light."
  
  "Yes, Lawrence."  At once the torch exploded behind him, and in a flood of yellow 
illumination, the slab of stone was wonderfully visible. Yes, hieroglyphs, deeply etched 
and beautifully gilded, and in Italian marble. He had never seen such a sight.
  
  He felt the hot silky touch of Samir's hand on his as he began to read aloud:
  
  " 'Robbers of the Dead, Look away from this tomb lest you wake its occupant, whose 
wrath cannot be contained. Ramses the Damned is my name.'"
  
  He glanced at Samir. What could it mean?
  
  "Goon, Lawrence, translate, you are far quicker than I am,"  Samir said.
  
  " 'Ramses the Damned is my name. Once Ramses the Great of Upper and Lower Egypt; Slayer 
of the Hittites, Builder of Temples; Beloved of the People; and immortal guardian of the 
kings and queens of Egypt throughout time. In the year of the death of the Great Queen 
Cleopatra, as Egypt becomes a Roman province, I commit myself to eternal darkness; 
beware, all those who would let the rays of the sun pass through this door.'"
  
  "But it makes no sense,"  Samir whispered." Ramses the Great ruled one thousand years 
before Cleopatra."
  
  "Yet these are nineteenth-dynasty hieroglyphs without question,"  Lawrence countered. 
Impatiently, he scratched away at the loose nibble." And look, the inscription's 
repeated-in Latin and in Greek."  He paused, then quickly read the last few Latin lines.
  
  " 'Be Warned: I sleep as the earth sleeps beneath the night sky or the winter's snow; 
and once awakened, I am servant to no man.'"
  
  For a moment Lawrence was speechless, staring at the words he'd read. Only vaguely did 
he hear Samir:
  
  "I don't like it. Whatever it means, it's a curse."
  
  Reluctantly Lawrence turned and saw that Samir's suspicion had turned to fear.
  
  "The body of Ramses the Great is in the Cairo Museum,"  Samir said impatiently.
  
  "No,"  Lawrence answered. He was aware of a chill moving slowly up his neck." There's a 
body in the Cairo Museum, but it's not Ramses! Look at the cartouches, the seal! There 
was no one in the time of Cleopatra who could even write the ancient hieroglyphs. And 
these are perfect-and done like the Latin and the Greek with infinite care."
  
  Oh, if only Julie were here, Lawrence thought bitterly. His daughter, Julie, was afraid 
of nothing. She would understand this moment as no one else could.
  
  He almost stumbled as he backed out of the passage, waving the photographers out of his 
path. Again, the flashes went off around him. Reporters rushed towards die marble door.
  
  "Get the diggers back to work,"  Lawrence shouted." I want the passage cleared down to 
the threshold. I'm going into that tomb tonight."
  
  "Lawrence, take your time with this,"  Samir cautioned." There is something here which 
must not be dismissed."
  
  "Samir, you astonish me,"  Lawrence answered." For ten years we've been searching these 
hills for just such a discovery. And no one's touched that door since it was sealed two 
thousand years ago."
  
  Almost angrily, he pushed past the reporters who caught up with him now, and tried to 
block the way. He needed the quiet of his tent until the door was uncovered; he needed 
his diary, the only proper confidant for the excitement he felt. He was dizzy suddenly 
from the long day's heat.
  
  "No questions now, ladies and gentlemen,"  Samir said politely. As he always did, Samir 
came between Lawrence and the real world.
  
  Lawrence hurried down the uneven path, twisting his ankle a little painfully, yet 
continuing, his eyes narrow as he looked beyond the flickering torches at the sombre 
beauty of the lighted tents under the violet evening sky.
  
  Only one thing distracted him before he reached the safety zone of his camp chair and 
desk: a glimpse of his nephew, Henry, watching idly from a short distance away. Henry, so 
uncomfortable and out of place in Egypt; looking miserable in his fussy white linen suit. 
Henry, with the inevitable glass of Scotch in his hand, and the inevitable cheroot on his 
lip.
  
  Undoubtedly the belly dancer was with him-the woman, Malenka, from Cairo, who gave her 
British gentleman all the money she made.
  
  Lawrence could never entirely forget about Henry, but having Henry underfoot now was 
more than he could bear.
  
  In a life well lived, Lawrence counted Henry as his only true disappointment-the nephew 
who cared for no one and nothing but gaming tables and the bottle; the sole male heir to 
the Stratford millions who properly couldn't be trusted with a one-pound note.
  
  Sharp pain again as he missed Julie-his beloved daughter, who should have been here 
with him, and would have been if her young fiance"  hadn't persuaded her to stay at home.
  
  Henry had come to Egypt for money. Henry had company papers for Lawrence to sign. And 
Henry's father, Randolph, had sent him on this grim mission, desperate as always to cover 
his son's debts.
  
  A fine pair they are, Lawrence thought grimly-the ne'er-do-well and the chairman of the 
board of Stratford Shipping who clumsily funneled the company's profits into his son's 
bottomless purse.
  
  But in a very real way Lawrence could forgive his brother, Randolph, anything. Lawrence 
hadn't merely given the family business to Randolph. He had dumped it on Randolph, along 
with all its immense pressures and responsibilities, so that he, Lawrence, could spend 
his remaining years digging among the Egyptian ruins he so loved.
  
  And to be perfectly fair, Randolph had done a tolerable job of running Stratford 
Shipping. That is, until his son had turned him into an embezzler and a thief. Even now, 
Randolph would admit everything if confronted. But Lawrence was too purely selfish for 
that confrontation. He never wanted to leave Egypt again for the stuffy London offices of 
Stratford Shipping. Not even Julie could persuade him to come home.
  
  And now Henry stood there waiting for his moment. And Lawrence denied him that moment, 
entering the tent and eagerly pulling his chair up to the desk. He took out a 
leather-bound diary which he had been saving, perhaps for this discovery. Hastily he 
wrote what he remembered of the door's inscription and the questions it posed.
  
  "Ramses the Damned."  He sat back, looking at the name. And for the first time he felt 
just a little of the foreboding which had shaken Samir.
  
  What on earth could all this mean?
  
  Half-past midnight. Was he dreaming? The marble door of the tomb had been carefully 
removed, photographed, and placed on trestles in his tent. And now they were ready to 
blast their way in. The tomb! His at last.
  
  He nodded to Samir. He felt the ripple of excitement move through the crowd. Flashes 
went off as he raised his hands to his ears, and then the blast caught them all off 
guard. He felt it in the pit of his stomach.
  
  No time for that. He had the torch in hand and was going in, though Samir tried once 
again to stop him.
  
  "Lawrence, there could be booby traps, there could be-"
  
  "Get out of my way."
  
  The dust was making him cough. His eyes were watering.
  
  He thrust the torch through the gaping hole. Walls decorated with hieroglyphs-again, 
the magnificent nineteenth-dynasty style without question.
  
  At once he stepped inside. How extraordinarily cool it felt; and the smell, what was 
it, a curious perfume after all these long centuries!
  
  His heart beat too fast. The blood rushed to his face, and he had to cough again, as 
the press of reporters raised the dust in the passage.
  
  "Keep back!"  he shouted crossly. The flashes were going off all around him again. He 
could barely see the painted ceiling overhead with its tiny stars.
  
  And there, a long table laden with alabaster jars and boxes. Heaps of rolled papyri. 
Dear God, all this alone confirmed a momentous discovery.
  
  "But this is no tomb!"  he whispered.
  
  There was a writing table, covered with a thin film of dust, looking for all the world 
as if the scholar had only just left it. An open papyrus lay there, with sharpened pens, 
an ink bottle. And a goblet.
  
  But the bust, the marble bust-it was unmistakably Graeco-Roman. A woman with her tight 
wavy hair drawn back beneath a metal band, her drowsy half-lidded eyes seemingly blind, 
and the name cut into the base:
  
  CLEOPATRA
  
  "Not possible,"  he heard Samir say." But look, Lawrence, the mummy case!"
  
  Lawrence had already seen it. He was staring speechless at the thing which lay serenely 
in the very middle of (his puzzling room, this study, this library, with its stacks of 
scrolls and its dust-covered writing table.
  
  Once again, Samir ordered the photographers back. The smoking flashes were maddening 
Lawrence.
  
  "Get out, all of you, get out!"  Lawrence said. Grumbling, they retreated out of sight 
</pre>
<!--N=200 M=400 pt=-->
of the door, leaving the two men standing there in stunned silence.
  
  It was Samir who spoke first:
  
  "This is Roman furniture. This is Cleopatra. Look at the coins, Lawrence, on the desk. 
With her image, and newly minted. Those alone are worth-"
  
  "I know. But there lies an ancient Pharaoh, my friend. Every detail of the case-it's as 
fine as any ever found in the Valley of the Kings."
  
  "But without a sarcophagus,"  Samir said." Why?"
  
  "This is no tomb,"  Lawrence answered.
  
  "And so the King chose to be buried here!"  Samir approached the mummy case, lifting 
the torch high above the beautifully painted face, with its darkly lined eyes and 
exquisitely modeled lips.
  
  "I could swear this is the Roman period,"  he said.
  
  "But the style ..."
  
  "Lawrence, it's too lifelike. It's a Roman artist who has imitated the 
nineteenth-dynastic style to perfection."
  
  "And how could such a thing happen, my friend?"
  
  "Curses,"  Samir whispered, as if he had not heard the question. He was staring at the 
rows of hieroglyphs that circled the painted figure. The Greek lettering appeared lower 
down, and finally came the Latin.
  
  " Touch not the remains of Ramses the Great/"  Samir read." It's the same in all three 
tongues. Enough to give a sensible man pause."
  
  "Not this sensible man,"  Lawrence replied." Get those workers in here to lift this lid 
at once."
  
  The dust had settled somewhat. The torches, in the old iron sconces on the wall, were 
sending far too much smoke onto the ceiling, but that he would worry about later.
  
  The thing now was to cut open the bundled human shape, which had been propped against 
the wall, the thin wooden lid of the mummy case carefully laid upright beside it.
  
  He no longer saw the men and women packed at the entrance, who peered at him and his 
find in silence.
  
  Slowly, he raised the knife and sliced through the brittle husk of dried linen, which 
fell open immediately to reveal the tightly wrapped figure beneath.
  
  There was a collective gasp from the reporters. Again and again the flashes popped. 
Lawrence could feel Samir's silence. Both men stared at the gaunt face beneath its 
yellowed linen bandages, at the withered arms so serenely laid across the breast.
  
  It seemed one of the photographers was begging to be allowed into the chamber. Samir 
angrily demanded silence. But of these distractions, Lawrence was only dimly aware.
  
  He gazed calmly at the emaciated form before him, its wrap - I pings the color of 
darkened desert sand. It seemed he could detect an expression in the shrouded features; 
he could detect something eloquent of tranquillity in the set of the thin lips.
  
  Every mummy was a mystery. Every desiccated yet preserved form a ghastly image of life 
in death. It never failed to chill him, to look upon these ancient Egyptian dead. But he 
felt a strange longing as he looked at this one-this mysterious being who called himself 
Ramses the Damned, Ramses the Great.
  
  Something warm touched him inside. He drew closer, slashing again at the outer 
wrapping. Behind him, Samir ordered the photographers out of the passage. There was 
danger of contamination. Yes, go, all of you, please.
  
  He reached out and touched the mummy suddenly; he touched it reverently with the very 
tips of his fingers. So curiously resilient! Surely the thick layer of bandages had 
become soft with time.
  
  Again, he gazed at the narrow face before him, at the rounded lids, and the sombre 
mouth.
  
  "Julie,"  he whispered." Oh, my darling, if only you could see ..."
  
  The Embassy Ball. Same old faces; same old orchestra, same old sweet yet droning waltz. 
The lights were a glare to Elliott Savarell: the champagne left a sour taste in his 
mouth. Nevertheless he drained the glass rather gracelessly and caught the eye of a 
passing waiter. Yes, anodier. And another. Would that it were good brandy or whisky.
  
  But they wanted him here, didn't they? Wouldn't be the same without the Earl of 
Rutherford. The Earl of Rutherford was an essential ingredient, as were the lavish flower 
arrangements, the thousands upon thousands of candles; the caviar, and the silver; and 
the old musicians sawing wearily at their violins while the younger generation danced.
  
  Everyone had a greeting for the Earl of Rutherford. Everyone wanted the Earl of 
Rutherford to attend a daughter's wedding, or an afternoon tea, or another ball such as 
this. Never mind that Elliott and his wife rarely entertained anymore in either their 
London town house or the country estate in Yorkshire-that Edith spent much of her time in 
Paris now with a widowed sister. The seventeenth Earl of Rutherford was the genuine 
article. The titles in his family went back-one way or another-to Henry VIII.
  
  Why hadn't he ruined everything long ago? Elliott wondered. How had he ever managed to 
charm so many people in whom he had no more than a passing interest, at best?
  
  But no, that wasn't the entire truth. He loved some of these people, whether he cared 
to admit it or not. He loved his old friend Randolph Stratford, just as he loved 
Randolph's brother, Lawrence. And surely he loved Julie Stratford, and he loved watching 
her dance with his son. Elliott was here on account of his son. Of course Julie wasn't 
really going to marry Alex. At least not any time soon. But it was the only clear hope on 
the horizon that Alex might acquire the money he needed to maintain the landed estates he 
would inherit, the wealth that was supposed to go along with an old title, and seldom did 
anymore.
  
  The sad part was that Alex loved Julie. The money meant nothing to either of them, 
really. It was the older generation that did the scheming, and the planning, as they have 
always done.
  
  Elliott leaned against the gilded railing, gazing down at the soft drift of young 
couples turning beneath him, and for a moment, he tried to shut out the din of voices, 
and hear only the sweet strains of the waltz.
  
  But Randolph Stratford was talking again. Randolph was assuring Elliott that Julie 
needed only a little prodding. If only Lawrence would say the word, his daughter would 
give in.
  
  "Give Henry a chance,"  Randolph said again." He's only been in Egypt a week. If 
Lawrence will take the initiative ..."
  
  "But why,"  Elliott asked," should Lawrence do mat?"
  
  Silence.
  
  Elliott knew Lawrence better than Randolph knew him. Elliott and Lawrence. No one 
really knew the whole story, except the two men themselves. At Oxford years ago, in a 
carefree world, they had been lovers, and the year after they'd finished, they had spent 
a winter together south of Cairo in a houseboat on the Nile. Inevitably the world had 
separated them. Elliott had married Edith Christian, an American heiress. Lawrence had 
built Stratford Shipping into an empire.
  
  But their friendship had never faltered. They had spent countless holidays in Egypt 
together. They could still argue all night long about history, ruins, archaeological 
discoveries, poetry, what have you. Elliott had been the only one who really understood 
when Lawrence retired and went to Egypt. Elliott had envied Lawrence. And there had been 
the first bitterness between them. In the small hours, when die wine flowed, Lawrence had 
called Elliott a coward, for spending his remaining years in London in a world he did not 
value; a world which gave him no joy. Elliott had criticized Lawrence for being blind and 
stupid. After all, Lawrence was rich beyond Elliott's wildest dreams; and Lawrence was a 
widower with a clever and independent daughter. Elliott had a wife and son who needed him 
day in and day out to regulate the successes of their wholly respectable and conventional 
lives.
  
  "All I mean to say,"  Randolph pressed," is that if Lawrence would express his wish 
about this marriage ..."
  
  "And the small matter of the twenty thousand pounds?"  Elliott asked suddenly. The tone 
was soft, polite, but the question was unforgivably rude. Nevertheless he persisted." 
Edith will be back from France in a week and she's certain to notice that the necklace is 
missing. You know, she always does."
  
  Randolph didn't answer.
  
  Elliott laughed softly, but not at Randolph, not even at himself. And certainly not at 
Edith, who had only a little more money now than Elliott did and most of it in plate and 
jewels.
  
  Perhaps Elliott laughed because the music made him giddy; or something about the vision 
of Julie Stratford, dancing down there with Alex, touched his heart. Or perhaps because 
of late he had lost the ability to speak any longer in euphemisms and half-truths. It was 
gone along with his physical stamina, and the sense of well-being he had enjoyed 
throughout his youth.
  
  Now his joints hurt more and more with every passing winter; and he could not walk half 
a mile any longer in the country without suffering a severe pain in his chest. He did not 
mind having white hair at fifty-five, perhaps because he knew he looked rather good with 
it. But it bruised him secretly and deeply to have to use a cane wherever he went. These 
were all mere shadows, however, of what was yet to come.
  
  Old age, weakness, dependence. Pray that Alex was happily married to the Stratford 
millions, and not before too long!
  
  He felt restless, suddenly; dissatisfied. The soft swooshing music annoyed him; sick to 
death of Strauss, actually. But it was something keener.
  
  He wanted to explain it suddenly to Randolph, that he, Elliott, had made some crucial 
mistake a long time ago. Something to do with those long nights in Egypt, when he and 
Lawrence would walk through the black streets of Cairo together, or rail at each other 
drunkenly in the little saloon of the boat. Lawrence
  
  had somehow managed to live his life along heroic proportions; he had accomplished 
things of which others were simply incapable. Elliott had moved with the current. 
Lawrence had escaped to Egypt, back to the desert, the temples, to those clear 
star-filled nights.
  
  God, how he missed Lawrence. In the last three years they had exchanged only a handful 
of letters, but the old understanding would never grow dim.
  
  "Henry took some papers with him,"  Randolph said," small matter of family stock."  He 
glanced about warily, too warily. Elliott was going to laugh again.
  
  "If it goes as I hope,"  Randolph continued," I'll pay you everything I owe you, and 
the marriage will take place within six months, I give you my word."  Elliott smiled.
  
  "Randolph, the marriage may or may not happen; it may or may not solve things for both 
of us-" "Don't say mat, old boy."
  
  "But I must have that twenty thousand pounds before Edith comes home,"
</pre>
<!--N=400 M=600 pt=-->
  
  "Precisely, Elliott, precisely."
  
  "You know, you might say no to your son once hi a while."  A deep sigh came from 
Randolph. Elliott didn't press it. He knew as well as anyone did that Henry's 
deterioration was no joke any longer; it had nothing to do with sowing wild oats, or 
going through a rough period. There was something thoroughly rotten in Henry Stratford 
and there always had been. There was very little that was rotten in Randolph. And so it 
was a tragedy; and Elliott, who loved his own son, Alex, excessively, had only sympathy 
for Randolph on that score.
  
  More assurances; a positive din of assurance. You'll get your twenty thousand pounds. 
But Elliott wasn't listening. He was watching the dancers again-his good and gentle son 
whispering passionately to Julie, whose face wore that look of determination that 
flattered her for reasons that Elliott could never fully understand.
  
  Some women must smile to be beautiful. Some women must weep. But with Julie, the real 
radiance shone only when she was serious-perhaps because her eyes were too softly brown 
otherwise, her mouth too guileless, her porcelain cheeks too smooth.
  
  Fired with determination, she was a vision. And Alex, for all
  
  his breeding, and all his proffered passion, seemed no more than **a partner"  for her; 
one of a thousand elegant young men who might have guided her across the marble floor.
  
  ft was the" Morning Papers Waltz"  and Julie loved it; she had always loved it. There 
came back to her now a faint memory of dancing once to the" Morning Papers Waltz"  with 
her father. Was ft when they had first brought home the gramophone, and they had danced 
all through the Egyptian room and the library and the drawing rooms-she and Father-until 
the light came through the shutters, and he had said:
  
  "Oh, my dear, no more. No more."
  
  Now the music made her drowsy and almost sad. And Alex kept talking to her, telling her 
in one way or another that he loved her, and mere was that panic inside her, that fear of 
speaking harsh or cold words.
  
  "And if you want to live in Egypt,"  Alex said breathlessly," and dig for mummies with 
your father, well then, we'll go to Egypt. We'll go straight after the wedding. And if 
you want to in arch for the vote, well then, I shall march at your side."
  
  "Oh, yes,"  Julie answered," that's what you say now, and I know you mean it with all 
your heart, but Alex, I'm just not ready. I cannot."
  
  She couldn't bear to see him so deadly earnest. She couldn't bear to see him hurt. If 
only there were a little wickedness in Alex; just a little bit of meanness as there was 
in everyone else. His good looks would nave been improved by a little meanness. Tall, 
lean and brown-haired, he was too angelic. His quick dark eyes revealed his entire soul 
too easily. At twenty-five, he was an eager and innocent boy.
  
  '"What do you want with a suffragette for a wife?"  she asked." With an explorer? You 
know I could very well be an explorer, or an archaeologist. I wish I was in Egypt with 
Father right now."
  
  "Dearest, we'll go there. Only marry me before we go."
  
  He leaned forward as if he meant to lass her. And she moved back a step, the waltz 
carrying them almost recklessly fast, so that for a moment she felt light-headed and 
almost as if she were truly in love.
  
  "What can I do to win you, Julie?"  he whispered in her ear." I'll bring the Great 
Pyramids to London."
  
  "Alex, you won me a long time ago,"  she said, smiling. But
  
  that was a lie, wasn't it? There was something truly terrible about this moment-about 
the music with its lovely compelling rhythm, and the desperate look on Alex's face.
  
  "The simple truth is ... I don't want to be married. Not yet."  And perhaps not at all?
  
  He didn't answer her. She'd been too blunt, too much to the point. She knew that sudden 
shrinking. It wasn't unmanly; on the contrary, it was gentlemanly. She had hurt him, and 
when he smiled again now, there was a sweetness and a courage in it that touched her and 
made her feel all the more sad.
  
  "Father will be back in a few months, Alex. We'll all talk then. Marriage, the future, 
the rights of women, married and unmarried, and the possibility that you deserve far 
better than a modern woman like me who's very likely to turn your hair grey within the 
first year and send you running into the arms of an old-fashioned mistress."
  
  "Oh, how you love to be shocking,"  he said." And I love to be shocked."
  
  "But do you, dearest, really love to be shocked?"
  
  Suddenly he did kiss her. They had stopped in the middle of the dance floor, other 
couples swirling around them as the music swept on. He kissed her and she allowed it, 
yielding to him completely as if she must somehow love him; must somehow meet him halfway.
  
  It didn't matter that others must be looking at them. It didn't matter that his hands 
were trembling as he held her.
  
  What mattered was that, though she loved him terribly, it was not enough.
  
  It was cool now. There was noise out there; cars arriving. The braying of a donkey; and 
the sharp high-pitched sound of a woman laughing, an American woman, who had driven all 
the way from Cairo as soon as she had heard.
  
  Lawrence and Samir sat together in their camp chairs at the ancient writing table, with 
the papyri spread out before them.
  
  Careful not to put his full weight on the fragile piece of furniture, Lawrence hastily 
scribbled his translations in his leather-bound book.
  
  Now and then he glanced over his shoulder at the mummy, the great King who for all die 
world looked as if he merely slept. Ramses the Immortal! The very idea inflamed Lawrence. 
He knew that he would be in this strange chamber until well after dawn.
  
  "But it must be a hoax,"  Samir said." Ramses the Great guarding the royal families of 
Egypt for a thousand years. The lover of Cleopatra?"
  
  "Ah, but it makes sublime sense!"  Lawrence replied. He set down the pen for a moment, 
staring at the papyri. How his eyes ached." If any woman could have driven an immortal 
man to entomb himself, Cleopatra would be that woman."
  
  He looked at the marble bust before him. Lovingly he stroked Cleopatra's smooth white 
cheek. Yes, Lawrence could believe it. Cleopatra, beloved of Julius Caesar and beloved of 
Mark Antony; Cleopatra, who had held out against the Roman conquest of Egypt far longer 
than anyone dreamed possible; Cleopatra, the last ruler of Egypt in the ancient world. 
But the story-he must resume his translation...
  
  Samir rose and stretched uneasily. Lawrence watched him move towards the mummy. What 
was he doing? Examining the wrappings over the fingers, examining the brilliant scarab 
ring so clearly visible on the right hand? Now mat was a nineteenth-dynasty treasure, no 
one could deny it, Lawrence thought.
  
  Lawrence closed his eyes and massaged his eyelids gently. Then he opened them, focusing 
on the papyrus before him again.
  
  "Samir, I tell you, the fellow is convincing me. Such a command of languages would 
dazzle anyone. And his philosophical perspective is quite as modern as my own."  He 
reached for the older document, which he had examined earlier." And this, Samir, I want 
you to examine it. This is none other than a letter from Cleopatra to Ramses."
  
  "A hoax, Lawrence. Some sort of little Roman joke."
  
  "No, my friend, nothing of the kind. She wrote this letter from Rome when Caesar was 
assassinated! She told Ramses she was coming home to him, and to Egypt."
  
  He laid the letter aside. When Samir had time he would see for himself what these 
documents contained. All the world would see. He turned back to the original papyrus.
  
  "But listen to this, Samir-Ramses' last thoughts: 'The Romans can not be condemned for 
the conquest of Egypt; we were conquered by time itself in the end. And all the wonders 
of this brave new century should draw me from my grief and yet I can not heal my heart; 
and so the mind suffers; the mind closes as if it were a flower without sun.'"
  
  Samir was still looking at the mummy, looking at the ring." Another reference to the 
sun. Again and again the sun."  He turned to Lawrence." But surely you don't believe it-!"
  
  "Samir, if you can believe in the curse, why can't you believe in an immortal man?"
  
  "Lawrence, you play with me. I have seen the workings of many a curse, my friend. But 
an immortal man who lived in Athens under Pericles and Rome under the Republic and 
Carthage under Hannibal? A man who taught Cleopatra the history of Egypt? Of this I know 
nothing at all."
  
  "Listen again, Samir: 'Her beauty shall forever haunt me; as well as her courage and 
her frivolity; her passion for life, which seemed inhuman in its intensity while being 
only human after all.'"
  
  Samir made no answer. His eyes were fixed on the mummy again, as if he could not stop 
looking at it. Lawrence understood perfectly, which is why he sat with his back to the 
thing in order to read the papyrus, so that he would get the crucial work done.
  
  "Lawrence, this mummy is as dead as any I have ever seen in the Cairo Museum. A 
storyteller, that is what the man was. Yet these rings."
  
  "Yes, my friend, I observed it very carefully earlier; it is the cartouche of Ramses 
the Great, and so we have not merely a storyteller but a collector of antiquities. Is 
that what you want me to believe?"
  
  But what did Lawrence believe? He sat back against the sagging canvas of the camp chair 
and let his eyes drift over the contents of this strange room. Then again he translated 
from the scroll.
  
  " 'And so I retreat to this isolated chamber; and now my library shall become my tomb. 
My servants shall anoint .my body and wrap it in fine funerary linen as was the custom of 
my time now so long forgotten. But no knife shall touch me. No embalmer shall extract the 
heart and brain from my immortal form."
  
  A euphoria overcame Lawrence suddenly; or was it a state of waking dream? This voice-it 
seemed so real to him; he fed the personality, as one never did with the ancient 
Egyptians. Ah, but of course, this was an immortal man...
  
  Elliott was getting drunk, but no one knew it. Except Elliott, who leaned on the gilded 
rail of the half-landing again in a rather casual manner that he almost never assumed. 
There was a style to even his smallest gestures, and now he carelessly violated it, 
keenly aware that no one would notice; no one would take offense.
  
  Ah, such a world, made up almost wholly of subtleties. What a horror. And he must think 
of this marriage; he must talk of this marriage; he must do something about the sad 
spectacle of his son, quite obviously defeated, who, after watching Julie dance with 
another, came now up the marble stairs.
  
  "I'm asking you to trust in me,"  Randolph was saying." I guarantee this marriage. All 
it takes is a little time."
  
  "Surely you don't think I enjoy pressing you,"  Elliott answered. Thick-tongued. Drunk 
all right." I'm much more comfortable in a dream world, Randolph, where money simply 
doesn't exist. But the fact is, we cannot afford such reverie, either of us. This 
</pre>
<!--N=600 M=800 pt=-->
marriage is essential for us both."
  
  "Then I shall go to see Lawrence myself."
  
  Elliott turned to see his son only a few steps away, waiting like a schoolboy for the 
adults to acknowledge him.
  
  "Father, I badly need consolation,"  Alex said.
  
  "What you need is courage, young man,"  Randolph said crossly." Don't tell me you've 
taken no for an answer again."
  
  Alex took a glass of champagne from the passing waiter.
  
  "She loves me. She loves me not,"  he said softly." The simple fact is I cannot live 
without her. She's driving me mad."
  
  "Of course you cannot."  Elliott laughed gently." Now, look. That clumsy young man down 
there is stepping on her feet. I'm sure she'd be very grateful if you came to her rescue 
at once."
  
  Alex nodded, scarcely noticing as his father took the half-full glass from him and 
drank down the champagne. He straightened his shoulders and headed back to the dance 
floor. Such a perfect picture.
  
  "The puzzling part is this,"  Randolph said under his breath." She loves him. She 
always has."
  
  "Yes, but she's like her father. She loves her freedom. And frankly I don't blame her. 
In a way she's too much for Alex. But he'd make her happy, I know that he would."
  
  "Of course."
  
  "And she would make him supremely happy; and perhaps no one else ever will."
  
  "Nonsense,"  Randolph said." Any young woman in London
  
  would give her eyeteeth for the chance to make Alex happy. The eighteenth Earl of 
Rutherford?"
  
  "Is that really so important? Our titles, our money, the endless maintenance of our 
decorative and tiresome little world?"  Elliott glanced around the ballroom. This was 
that lucid and dangerous state with drinking, when everything began to shimmer; when 
there was meaning in the grain of the marble; when one could make the most offensive 
speeches." I wonder sometimes if I should be in Egypt with Lawrence. And if Alex 
shouldn't peddle his beloved title to someone else."
  
  He could see the panic in Randolph's eyes. Dear God, what did the title mean to these 
merchant princes, these businessmen who had all but the title? It wasn't only that Alex 
might eventually control Julie, and thereby control the Stratford millions, and that Alex 
himself would be far easier than Julie to control. It was the prospect of true nobility, 
of nieces and nephews roaming the park of the old Rutherford estate in Yorkshire, of that 
miserable Henry Stratford trading on the alliance in every despicable way that he could.
  
  "We're not defeated yet, Elliott,"  Randolph said." And I rather like your decorative 
and tiresome little world. What else is there when you get right down to it?"
  
  Elliott smiled. One more mouthful of champagne and he must tell Randolph what else 
there was. He just might...
  
  "I love you, fine English,"  Malenka said to him. She kissed him, then helped him with 
his tie, the soft touch of her fingers against his chin making the hairs rise on his neck.
  
  What lovely fools women were, Henry Stratford thought. But this Egyptian woman he had 
enjoyed more than most. She was dark-skinned, a dancer by profession-a quiet and luscious 
beauty with whom he could do exactly what he wanted. You never knew that kind of freedom 
with an English whore.
  
  He could see himself settling someday in an Eastern country with such a woman-free of 
all British respectability. That is, after he had made his fortune at the tables-that one 
great win he needed to put him quite beyond the world's reach.
  
  For the moment, there was work to be done. The crowd around the tomb had doubled in 
size since last evening. And the trick was to reach his uncle Lawrence before the man was 
swept up utterly by the museum people and the authorities-to reach him now when he just 
might agree to anything in return for being left alone.
  
  "Go on, dearest."  He kissed Malenka again and watched her wrap the dark cloak about 
herself and hurry to the waiting car. How grateful she was for these small Western 
luxuries. Yes, that kind of woman. Rather than Daisy, his London mistress, a spoilt and 
demanding creature who nevertheless excited him, perhaps because she was so difficult to 
please.
  
  He took one last swallow of Scotch, picked up his leather briefcase, and left the tent.
  
  The crowds were ghastly. All night long he'd been awakened by die grind and huff of 
automobiles, and frenzied voices. And now the heat was rising; and he could already feel 
sand inside his shoes.
  
  How he loathed Egypt. How he loathed these desert camps and the filthy camel-riding 
Arabs, and the lazy dirty servants. How he loathed his uncle's entire world.
  
  And there was Samir, that insolent, irritating assistant who fancied himself Lawrence's 
social equal, trying to quiet the foolish reporters. Could this really be the tomb of 
Ramses II? Would Lawrence grant an interview?
  
  Henry didn't give a damn. He pushed past the men who were guarding the entrance to the 
tomb.
  
  "Mr. Stratford, please,"  Samir called after him. A lady reporter was on his heels." 
Let your uncle alone now,"  Samir said as he drew closer." Let him savor his find."
  
  "The hell I will."
  
  He glared at the guard who blocked his path. The man moved. Samir turned back to hold 
off the reporters. Who was going into the tomb? they wanted to know.
  
  "This is a family matter,"  he said quickly and coldly to the woman reporter trying to 
follow him. The guard stepped in her path.
  
  So little time left. Lawrence stopped writing, wiped his brow carefully, folded his 
handkerchief and made one more brief note:
  
  "Brilliant to hide the elixir in a wilderness of poisons. What safer place for a potion 
that confers immortality than among potions that bring death. And to think they were her 
poisons- those which Cleopatra tested before deciding to use the venom of the asp to take 
her life."
  
  He stopped, wiped his brow again. Already so hot in here.
  
  And within a few short hours, they'd be upon him, demanding that he leave the tomb for 
the museujn officials. Oh, if only he had made this discovery without the museum. God 
knows, he hadn't needed them. And they would take it all out of his hands.
  
  The sun came in fine shafts through the rough-cut doorway. It struck the alabaster jars 
in front of him, and it seemed he heard something-faint, like a whispered breath.
  
  He turned and looked at the mummy, at the features clearly molded beneath the tight 
wrappings. The man who claimed to be Ramses had been tall, and perhaps robust.
  
  Not an old man, like the creature lying in the Cairo Museum. But then this Ramses 
claimed that he had never grown old. He was immortal, and merely slept within these 
bandages. Nothing could kill him, not even the poisons in this room, which he had tried 
in quantity, when grief for Cleopatra had left him half-mad. On his orders, his servants 
had wrapped his unconscious body; they had buried him alive, in the coffin he had had 
prepared for himself, supervising every detail; then they had sealed the tomb with the 
door that he himself had inscribed.
  
  But what had rendered him unconscious? That was the mystery. Ah, what a delicious 
story. And what if-?
  
  He found himself staring at the grim creature in its bindings of yellow linen. Did he 
really believe that something was alive there? Something that could move and speak?
  
  It made Lawrence smile.
  
  He turned back to the jars on the desk. The sun was making the little room an inferno. 
Taking his handkerchief, he carefully lifted the lid of the first jar before him. Smell 
of bitter almonds. Something as deadly as cyanide.
  
  And the immortal Ramses claimed to have ingested half the contents of the jar in 
seeking to end his cursed life.
  
  What if there were an immortal being under those wrappings ?
  
  There came that sound again. What was it? Not a rustling; no, nothing so distinct. 
Rather like an intake of breath.
  
  Once again he looked at the mummy. The sun was shining full on it in long, beautiful 
dusty rays-the sun that shone through church windows, or through the branches of old oaks 
in dim forest glens.
  
  It seemed he could see the dust rising from the ancient figure: a pale gold mist of 
moving particles. Ah, he was too tired!
  
  And the thing, it did not seem so withered any longer; rather it had taken on the 
contour of a man." But what were you really, my ancient friend?"  Lawrence asked softly." 
Mad? Deluded? Or just what you claim to be- Ramses the Great?"
  
  It gave him a chill to say it-what the French call a frisson. He rose and drew closer 
to the mummy.
  
  The rays of the sun were positively bathing the thing. For the first time he noticed 
the contours of its eyebrows beneath the wrappings; there seemed more expression-hard, 
determined- to its face.
  
  Lawrence smiled. He spoke to it in Latin, piecing together his sentences carefully." Do 
you know how long you've slumbered, immortal Pharaoh? You who claimed to have lived one 
thousand years?"
  
  Was he murdering the ancient language? He had spent so many years translating 
hieroglyphs that he was rusty with Caesar's tongue." It's been twice that long, Ramses, 
since you sealed yourself in this chamber; since Cleopatra put the poisonous snake to her 
breast."
  
  He stared at the figure, silent for a moment. Was there a mummy that did not arouse in 
one some deep, cold fear of death? You could believe life lingered there somehow; that 
the soul was trapped in the wrappings and could only be freed if the thing were destroyed.
  
  Without thinking he spoke now in English.
  
  "Oh, if only you were immortal. If only you could open your eyes on this modern world. 
And if only I didn't have to wait for permission to remove those miserable bandages, to 
look on ... your face!"
  
  The face. Had something changed in the face? No; it was only the full sunlight, wasn't 
it? But the face did seem fuller. Reverently, Lawrence reached out to touch it but then 
didn't, his hand poised there motionless.
  
  He spoke in Latin again." It's the year 1914, my great King. And the name Ramses the 
</pre>
<!--N=800 M=1000 pt=-->
Great is still known to all the world; and so is the name of your last Queen."
  
  Suddenly there was a noise behind him. Henry:
  
  "Speaking to Ramses the Great in Latin, Uncle? Maybe the curse is already working on 
your brain."
  
  "Oh, he understands Latin,"  Lawrence answered, still staring at the mummy." Don't you, 
Ramses? And Greek also. And Persian and Etruscan, and tongues the world has forgotten. 
Who knows? Perhaps you knew the tongues of the ancient northern barbarians which became 
our own English centuries ago."  Once again, he lapsed into Latin." But oh, there are so 
many wonders in the world now, great Pharaoh. There are so many things I could show you. 
..."
  
  "I don't think he can hear you, Uncle,"  Henry said coldly. There was a soft chink of 
glass touching glass." Let's hope not, in any case."
  
  Lawrence turned around sharply. Henry, a briefcase tucked under his left arm, held the 
lid of one of the jars in his right hand.
  
