  "I hope Henry didn't run to you with that nonsense of his..."  Yes, that was the 
meaning.
  
  But it was not nonsense at all. And slowly he shifted his gaze and forced himself to 
see for himself that she was safe and sound and sane. Then he closed his eyes, and when 
he opened them again, he looked not at the ring but at the King's face, at the steady 
blue eyes which understood everything.
  
  When he spoke to her again, it was a meaningless murmur:
  
  "Your father would not have wanted for you to be unprotected. Your father would have 
wanted me to come. ..."
  
  "Ah, but Samir, friend of Lawrence,"  the other said," there is no danger now to Julie 
Stratford."  And dropping suddenly into the ancient Egyptian with an accent Samir had 
never heard:" This woman is loved by me and shall be protected from all harm."
  
  Stunning, that sound. He backed away. Julie was talking again. And again he wasn't 
listening. He had gone to the mantel shelf and held on to it now as if he might fall.
  
  "Surely you know the ancient tongue of the Pharaohs, my friend,"  said the tall 
blue-eyed man." You are Egyptian, are you not? All your life you have studied it. You can 
read it as well as you read Latin or Greek."
  
  Such a carefully modulated voice; it was trying to dispel all fear; civilized, 
courteous. What more could Samir have wanted?
  
  "Yes, sir, you are right,"  Samir said." But I've never heard it spoken aloud, and the 
accent has always been a mystery. But you must tell me-" He forced himself to look at the 
man directly again." You are an Egyptologist, 1 have been told. Do you believe it was the 
curse on the tomb that killed my beloved friend, Lawrence? Or did death take him 
naturally as we supposed?"
  
  The man appeared to weigh the question; and in the shadows some feet away, Julie 
Stratford paled and lowered her eyes, and turned just a little away from both of them.
  
  "Curses are words, my friend,"  the man said." Warnings to drive away the ignorant and 
meddlesome. It requires poison or some other crude weapon to take a human life 
unnaturally."
  
  "Poison!"  Samir whispered.
  
  "Samir, it's very late,"  Julie said. Her voice was raw, strained." We mustn't speak of 
all this now, or I'll give way to tears again and feel foolish. We must speak of these 
things only when we really want to examine them."  She came forward and took both his 
hands." I want you to come another night, when we can all sit down together."
  
  "Yes, Julie Stratford is very tired. Julie Stratford has been a great teacher. And I 
bid you good night, my friend. You are my friend, are you not? There are many things 
perhaps that we can say to each other. But for now, believe I shall protect Julie 
Stratford from anyone or anything that would hurt her."
  
  Samir walked slowly to the door.
  
  "If you need me,"  he said, turning back," you must send for me."  He reached into his 
coat. He took out his card and stared at it, quite baffled for a moment. Then he gave it 
to the man. He watched the ring glinting in the light as the man took it from him.
  
  "I am in my office at the British Museum very late every night. I walk the corridors 
when everyone is gone. Come to the side door, and you will find me."
  
  But why was he saying these things? What did he mean to convey? He wished suddenly the 
creature would speak the ancient tongue again; he could not understand the strange 
mixture of pain and joy that he felt; the strange darkening of the world, and the keen 
appreciation of light which had come with that darkening.
  
  He turned and went out, hurrying down the granite steps and past the uniformed guards 
without so much as a glance in their direction. He walked fast through the cold damp 
streets. He ignored the cabs mat slowed. He wanted only to be alone. He kept seeing that 
ring; hearing those old Egyptian words finally denned aloud as he had never heard them. 
He wanted to weep. A miracle had been revealed; yet somehow it threatened the miraculous 
all around him.
  
  "Lawrence, give me guidance,"  he whispered.
  
</pre>
<!--N=5000 M=5200 pt=-->
  Julie shut the door and slipped the bolt.
  
  She turned to Ramses. She could hear Rita's tread on the floor above. They were alone, 
quite beyond Rita's hearing.
  
  "You don't mean to trust him with your secret!"  she asked.
  
  "The harm is done,"  he said quietly." He knows the truth. And your cousin Henry will 
tell others. And others, too, will come to believe."
  
  "No, that's impossible. You saw yourself what happened with the police. Samir knows 
because he saw the ring; he recognized it. And because he came to see, and came to 
believe. Others will not do that. And somehow ..."
  
  "Somehow?"
  
  "You wanted him to know. That's why you addressed him by name. You told him who you 
were."
  
  "Did I?"
  
  "Yes, I think that you did."
  
  He pondered this. He didn't find the idea too agreeable. But it was true, she could 
have sworn so.
  
  "Two who believe can make three,"  he said, as if she hadn't made the point at all.
  
  "They cannot prove it. You're real, yes, and the ring is real. But what is there really 
to connect you with the past! You don't understand these times if you think it takes so 
little for men to believe that one has risen from the grave. This is the age of science, 
not religion."
  
  He was collecting his thoughts. He bowed his head and folded his arms and moved back 
and forth on the carpet. Then he stopped:
  
  "Oh, my darling dear, if only you understood,"  he said. There was no urgency in his 
voice, but there was great feeling. And it seemed the cadence was English now, almost 
intimately so." For a thousand years I guarded this truth,"  he said," even from those I 
loved and served. They never knew whence I came, or how long I'd lived, or what had 
befallen me. And now I've blundered into your time, revealing this truth to more mortals 
in one full moon than ever knew it since Ramses ruled Egypt."
  
  "I understand,"  she said. But she was thinking something else quite different. You 
wrote the whole story in the scrolls. You left them there. And that was because you could 
not bear this secret any longer." You don't understand these times,"  she said again." 
Miracles aren't believed, even by those to whom they happen."
  
  "What a strange thing to say!"
  
  "Were I to shout it from the rooftops no one would believe. Your elixir is safe, with 
or without these poisons."
  
  It seemed a shock of pain went through him. She saw it. She felt it. She regretted her 
words. What madness to think this creature is all powerful, that his ready smile doesn't 
conceal a vulnerability as vast as his strength. She was at a loss. She waited. And then 
his smile, once again, came to her rescue.
  
  "What can we do but wait and see, Julie Stratford?"
  
  He sighed. He removed his frock coat, and walked away from her into the Egyptian room. 
He stared at the coffin, his coffin, and then at the row of jars. He reached down and 
carefully switched on the electric lamp, as he had seen her do, and then looked up at the 
rows and rows of books rising over Lawrence's desk to the ceiling.
  
  "Surely you need to sleep,"  she said." Let me take you upstairs to Father's room."
  
  "No, my darling dear, I do not sleep, except when I mean to take leave of life for the 
time being."
  
  "You mean ... day in and day out, you need no sleep whatsoever!"
  
  "That is correct,"  he said, flashing her another little smile." I shall tell you 
another wicked secret too. I do not need the food or the drink I take, I merely crave it. 
And my body enjoys it."  He laughed softly at her shock." But what I do need now is to 
read in your father's books, if you will allow me."
  
  "Of course, you needn't ask me for such a thing,"  she said." You must take what you 
need and what you want. Go to his room when you wish. Put on his robe. I want you to have 
every comfort."  She laughed." I'm beginning to speak the way you speak."
  
  They looked at each other. Only a few feet separated them, and she was grateful for 
them.
  
  "I'll leave you now,"  she said, but instantly he caught her hand, and closed the 
distance and locked her in his arms, and kissed her again. Then, almost roughly he let 
her go.
  
  "Julie is Queen in her own domain,"  he said, a little apologetically.
  
  "And your words to Samir, let us remember them. 'But for now, I shall protect Julie 
Stratford from anyone or anything that would hurt her.'"
  
  "I did not He. And I should like to lie at your side, the better to protect you."
  
  She laughed softly. Better escape now while it was still morally and physically 
possible." Oh, but there is one other thing,"  she said. She went to the far northeast 
corner of the room, and opened the cabinet gramophone. She cranked the thing, and looked 
at the RCA Victor records. Verdi's Aida." Ah, the very thing,"  she said. And no 
appalling picture on the front of the album to repel him. She put the heavy, brittle 
black disk on the velvet turntable. She set the arm in place. And then turned to watch 
his face as the triumphal march from the opera began, a low, faraway chorus of lovely 
voices.
  
  "Oooh, but what is this magic! The machine is making music!"
  
  "Just wind and play. And I shall sleep as mortal women do, dreaming, though real life 
has become all I ever dreamed it would be."
  
  She glanced back once to see him rocking to the music, his arms folded, his head bowed. 
He was singing with it, very low, under his breath. And even the simple sight of the 
white shirt stretched taut over his broad back and powerful arms sent the shivers through 
her.
  
  AS MIDNIGHT struck, Elliott closed the notebook.
  
  "He had spent the evening reading Lawrence's translations through and through, and 
reexamining his dusty old biographies of the King called Ramses the Great, and the Queen 
known as Cleopatra. There was nothing in these historical tomes that could not 
accommodate the assertions of the mummy's preposterous story.
  
  A man who ruled Egypt for sixty years might damn well have been immortal. And the reign 
of Cleopatra VI had been by any standards utterly remarkable.
  
  But what intrigued him more than anything at the moment was a paragraph Lawrence had 
written in Latin and in Egyptian-the very last of his notes. Elliott had had no trouble 
reading this. He had kept his diary in Latin when he was in Oxford; and he had studied 
Egyptian for years along with Lawrence, and then on his own.
  
  This was not a transcript of the material in Ramses' scrolls. Rather the paragraph 
contained Lawrence's private comments on what he'd read.
  
  "Claims to have taken this elixir once and once only. No further infusion was required. 
Brewed the mix for Cleopatra, but felt it was unsafe to discard it. Reluctant to take it 
into his body for fear of adverse results. What if all chemicals in this tomb are 
properly tested? What if there is some chemical here which has a rejuvenating effect upon 
the human body, and can substantially prolong life?"
  
  The two lines in Egyptian were incoherent. They said something about magic, secrets, 
natural ingredients combined to wholly new effect.
  
  So that is what Lawrence had believed, more or less. And he had taken pains to conceal 
it in the ancient languages. Now what did Elliott really believe about this situation? 
Especially in light of Henry's story of the mummy coming to life?
  
  It occurred to him again that he was playing a very dramatic little game; that belief 
is a word we seldom thoroughly examine. For example, he had all his life" believed"  in 
the teaching of the Church of England. But he did not really for a moment expect to enter 
a Christian heaven when he died, and certainly not a Christian hell. He would not have 
gambled one farthing on the existence of either.
  
  One thing was most certain. If he had actually seen the thing climb out of the coffin, 
as Henry claimed to have done, he would not be behaving like Henry. A man of no 
imagination, that was Henry. Perhaps the lack of imagination had always been the tragic 
flaw. It occurred to him that Henry was a man who did not grasp the implications of 
things.
  
  Far from running from this mystery, as Henry had chosen to do, Elliott had become 
obsessed with it. If only he had stayed longer in the Stratford house, been a little more 
clever. He could have examined those alabaster jars; he could have taken one of the 
scrolls. That poor little Rita would have settled for just about any explanation.
  
  He wished he had tried.
  
  He also wished that his son, Alex, were not suffering. For that was the only unpleasant 
aspect of this entertaining mystery so far.
  
  Alex had been calling Julie all day. He was in a great state of alarm over the guest in 
Julie's house, whom he had only glimpsed through the conservatory doors-"an enormous man, 
well, very tall, anyhow, with blue eyes. Quite a ... a good-looking fellow, but certainly 
too old to be courting Julie!"
  
  Then at eight this evening, there had come a call from one of those well-meaning 
friends who make a point of circulating rumours relentlessly. Julie had been seen dancing 
at the Victoria Hotel with a handsome and imposing stranger. Were not Alex and Julie 
engaged? Alex was now beside himself with worry.
  
  Though he had called Julie every hour upon the hour all afternoon, there had been no 
response from her. Finally he had begged his father to intervene. Could not Elliott get 
to the bottom of this?
  
  Yes. Elliott would get to the bottom of this. In fact, Elliott felt curiously enlivened 
by this entire development. Elliott felt almost young, daydreaming about Ramses the Great 
and his elixir hidden among poisons.
  
  He rose now from his comfortable chair by the fire, ignoring the familiar pain in his 
legs, and went to his desk to write a letter.
  
  Dearest Julie,
  
  It has come to my attention that you are entertaining a guest, a friend of your 
father's, I believe. It would give me great pleasure to meet this gentleman. Perhaps I 
can be of some service to you during his stay, and certainly would not wish to miss such 
an opportunity.
  
  May I ask you to join us here tomorrow night for family dinner...
  
  In a few moments he had finished this note. He put it in an envelope, sealed it, and 
took it into the front hall, where he laid it in a silver tray for his man, Walter, to 
deliver in the morning. Then he paused. Of course it was what Alex wanted him to do. But 
</pre>
<!--N=5200 M=5400 pt=-->
he knew that he was not doing it for Alex. And he knew that if any such dinner took place 
that Alex might be hurt even more than he had been already. On the other hand, the sooner 
Alex realized ... He stopped. He did not really know what it was that Alex was supposed 
to realize. He knew only that he himself was inflamed with the mystery that was slowly 
unfolding before him.
  
  He limped uneasily to the hook behind the stairs, removed his heavy serge cloak and 
then went out the side door of the house onto the street. There were four motor cars 
parked there.
  
  But the Lancia Theta with the electric starter was the only one he ever drove. And a 
whole year had passed during which he had not enjoyed that extraordinary pleasure.
  
  It delighted him now that he might take the thing out all alone, without having to 
consult a groom, a coachman, a valet or a chauffeur. What a lovely development, that such 
a complex invention took one back to simplicity.
  
  The worst of it was easing himself onto the front seat, but he managed it. Then he 
pressed down on the starter pedal, gave it petrol and he was soon on horseback again, 
free, as he'd been when he was a young man, heading toward Mayfair at a gallop.
  
  Leaving Ramses, Julie hurried up the stairs and into her room, closing the door behind 
her. For a long moment she leaned against the door, her eyes closed. She could hear Rita 
bustling about. She could smell the fragrant wax of the candles Rita always lighted by 
her bed. A romantic little touch that Julie retained from her childhood-before there had 
been electric lights-when the smell of the gaslights had always faintly sickened her.
  
  She thought of nothing now except all that had happened: it filled her so completely 
there was no room for true reflection or evaluation. That pounding sense of an 
all-consuming adventure was the only attitude she could rationally identify within 
herself. Except of course for a physical attraction to Ramses that was acutely painful.
  
  No, not merely physical. She was falling in love totally.
  
  As she opened her eyes, she saw the portrait of Alex on her dressing table. And Rita in 
the shadows, who had just laid out her nightgown over the lace-covered counterpane. Then 
gradually she became aware of flowers everywhere. Bouquets of flowers in glass vases on 
the dressing table, on the night tables, on her desk in the corner.
  
  "From the Viscount, miss,"  Rita said." All these bouquets. I don't know what he's 
going to think, miss, about all this ... these strange goings-on. I don't know what 1 
think myself, miss. ..."
  
  "Of course you don't,"  Julie said," but, Rita, you mustn't tell a soul, you know that."
  
  "Who would believe me, miss!"  Rita said." But I don't understand it, miss. How did he 
hide in that box? Why does he eat all that food?"
  
  For a moment Julie couldn't answer. What in the world was Rita thinking?
  
  "Rita, there's nothing to worry about,"  she said firmly. She took Rita's hands in 
hers." Will you believe me when I tell you that he is a good man, and there is a good 
explanation for everything?"
  
  Rita stared blankly at Julie. Her small blue eyes grew very wide suddenly." But, Miss 
Julie!"  she whispered." If he's a good man, why did he have to sneak into London like 
that? And why didn't he smother under all that wrapping?"
  
  Julie considered for a moment.
  
  "Rita, my father knew of the plan,"  she said soberly." He approved of it."
  
  Can we really burn in hell for telling lies? Julie thought. Especially lies that calm 
other people immediately?
  
  "I might even add,"  Julie said," that the man had a very important purpose here. And 
only a few people in the government know about it."
  
  "Ohhhh ..."  Rita was dumbfounded.
  
  "Of course a few very important people at Stratford Shipping know as well, but you 
mustn't breathe a word. Especially not to Henry, or Uncle Randolph, or Lord Rutherford or 
anyone else, you see..."
  
  Rita nodded." Very well, miss. I didn't know it was like that."
  
  After the door had closed, Julie started to laugh and put her hand to her mouth like a 
schoolgirl. But the truth was, it made perfect sense. For what Rita believed, mad as it 
seemed, was a great deal more plausible than what had really happened.
  
  What had really happened. She sat down before her mirror. She began almost idly to take 
the pins from her hair, and her vision blurred as she looked at her own reflection. She 
saw the room as if through a veil; she saw the flowers; she saw the white lace curtains 
of her bed; she saw her world, remote, and no longer important.
  
  She drifted slowly through the motions of brushing her hair, of rising, undressing, 
putting on her gown, and climbing under the covers. The candles still burned. The room 
had a soft lovely glow. The flowers gave a faint perfume.
  
  Tomorrow she would take him to the museums, if he wanted. They would take a train 
perhaps out in the country. To the Tower of London they might go. Oh, so many things ... 
so many, many things...
  
  And there came that great lovely cessation of all thought; she saw him; she saw herself 
and him together.
  
  Samir had been sitting at his desk for the better part of an hour. He had drunk half a 
bottle of Pernod, a liqueur he had always loved, which he had discovered in a French 
cafe"  in Cairo. He wasn't drunk, however; he had merely blunted the palm-tingling 
agitation that had taken possession of him shortly after he left the Stratford house. But 
when he tried to really think about what was going on, the agitation would return again.
  
  He was suddenly startled by a tap at his window. His office was at the back of the 
museum. And the only light shining in the entire building was his light, and perhaps 
another somewhere deep inside where the night guards took their cigarettes and coffee.
  
  He could not see the figure outside. But he knew who h was. And he was on his feet 
before the tap came again. He went into the back corridor, and to a rear door and opened 
it on the back alleyway.
  
  In a rain-spattered coat, his shirt open and unbuttoned halfway down the front, Ramses 
the Great stood waiting for him. Samir stepped out into the darkness. The rain had left a 
sheen on the stone walls, and on the pavement. But nothing seemed to shimmer quite like 
this tall, commanding figure before him.
  
  "What can I do for you, sire?"  Samir asked." What service can I render?"
  
  "I want to come in, honest one,"  Ramses said." If you will permit, I would like to see 
the relics of my ancestors and of my children."
  
  A lovely tremor passed through Samir at these words. He felt tears springing to his 
eyes. He could not have explained this bittersweet happiness to anyone.
  
  "Gladly, sire,"  he said." Let me be your guide. It is a great privilege."
  
  Elliott saw the books in Randolph's library. He parked his car at the kerb, right 
beside the old mews, climbed out and somehow managed to get up the steps and ring the 
bell. Randolph himself, in shirt-sleeves and with the stale smell of wine on his breath, 
came to answer.
  
  "Good Lord, do you know what time it is?"  he asked. He turned and allowed Elliott to 
follow him back into the library. What a grand affair it was, chock full of all the 
accoutrements money could buy for such a room, including prints of dogs and horses, and 
maps which no one ever looked at.
  
  "I'll tell you the truth right off. I'm too tired for anything else,"  Randolph said." 
You've come at a very good time to answer a very important question.' *
  
  "And what is that?' * Elliott said. He watched Randolph settle at his desk, a great 
monstrous thing of mahogany with heavy carving. There were papers and account books all 
over the top of it. There were bills in heaps. And a great huge ugly telephone, and 
leather containers for clips, pens, paper.
  
  "The ancient Romans,"  Randolph said, sitting back and drinking his wine without a 
thought to offering Elliott any." What did they do when they were dishonoured, Elliott? 
They slit their wrists, did they not? And bled to death gracefully."
  
  Elliott eyed the man, his red eyes, the slight palsy of his hand. Then he put his 
walking stick to use as he climbed to his feet again. He went to the desk and poured 
himself a glass of wine from the decanter. He refilled Randolph's glass, and then 
retreated to his chair again.
  
  Randolph watched all this but appeared to attach no significance to it whatsoever. He 
rested his elbows on the desk before him, and ran his heavy wrinkled fingers through his 
grey hair as he stared at the heap of papers.
  
  "If memory serves me right,"  Elliott said, "Brutus fell on his sword. Mark Antony 
later tried the same trick, and made a mess of it. He then climbed a rope to Cleopatra's 
bedchamber. And there managed somehow to kill himself again, or to die finally. She chose 
the poison of a snake. But yes, to answer your question, Romans did from time to time 
slit their wrists, that's true. But will you allow me to observe that no amount of money 
is worth a man's life. And you must stop thinking of this."
  
  Randolph smiled. Elliott tasted the wine. Very good. The Stratfords always drank good 
wine. Day in and day out, they drank vintages that others saved for momentous occasions.
  
  "Is that so?"  Randolph said." No amount of money. And where am I going to get the 
amount of money I need to prevent my niece from understanding the full extent of my 
perfidy?"
  
  The Earl shook his head." If you take your life, she will undoubtedly find out 
everything."
  
  "Yes, and I shall not be there to answer her questions."
  
  "A small point, and not worth the price of your remaining years. You're talking 
nonsense."
  
  "Am I? She isn't going to marry Alex. You know she isn't. And she wouldn't turn her 
back on Stratford Shipping even if she did. There's nothing standing between me and the 
final disaster."
  
  "Oh, yes, there is."
  
  "And what is that?"
  
  "Give it a few days and see if I'm not right. Your niece has herself a new distraction. 
Her guest from Cairo, Mr. Reginald Ramsey. Alex is miserable about it, of course, but 
Alex will recover. And this Reginald Ramsey may very well sweep Julie away from Stratford 
Shipping as well as from my son. And your problems may find a very simple solution. She 
may forgive you everything."
  
  "I saw that fellow!"  Randolph said." Saw him this morning when Henry made that asinine 
scene. You don't mean to tell me..."
  
  "I have a hunch, as Americans say. Julie and this man ..."
  
  "Henry ought to be in that house!"
  
  "Forget it. What you're saying doesn't matter."
</pre>
<!--N=5400 M=5600 pt=-->
  
  "Well, you sound downright cheerful about this! I should have thought you'd be more 
upset than I am."
  
  "It's unimportant."
  
  "Since when?"
  
  "Since I began to think, really think, about what our lives consist of. Old age and 
death await us all. And we cannot face that simple truth, so we look for endless 
distractions."
  
  "Good God, Elliott! You're not talking to Lawrence, you're talking to Randolph. I wish 
I could share your grand perspective. At the moment I'd sell my soul for one hundred 
thousand pounds. And so would a lot of other men."
  
  "I wouldn't,"  Elliott said." And I don't have one hundred thousand pounds and I never 
will. If I had it, I'd give it to you."
  
  "You would?"
  
  "Yes, I believe so. But let me take this conversation in another direction. Julie may 
not wish to be questioned about her friend Mr. Ramsey. She may want some time alone, some 
real independence. And you might find everything in your hands again."
  
  "You mean this?"
  
  "Yes, and now I'm going home. I'm tired, Randolph. Don't slit your wrists. Drink all 
you want, but don't do anything so dreadful to all of us. Tomorrow night, come to my 
house for dinner. I've invited Julie and this mysterious man. Don't fail me. And when 
it's all over, perhaps we'll have a better idea as to where things stand. You may get 
everything you want. And I may have the solution to a mystery. Can I count on you for 
tomorrow night?"
  
  "Dinner, tomorrow night?"  Randolph said." You came here at one in the morning to ask 
me this?"
  
  Elliott laughed. He set down the glass and stood up.
  
  "No,"  he said." I came to save your life. Believe me, it's not worth it, one hundred 
thousand pounds. Just being alive ... not being in pain ... but then why try to explain?"
  
  "Yes, don't put yourself out."
  
  "Good night, my friend. Don't forget. Tomorrow night. I'll see myself to the door. Now 
go to bed like a good man, will you?"
  
  With an electric torch, Samir had led Ramses rapidly through the entire collection. 
Whatever the King felt, the King did not confess. He studied each large object-mummy, 
sarcophagus, statue-in turn, barely observing the multitude of tiny relics that filled 
cases galore.
  
  Their footsteps echoed carelessly on the stone floor. The lone guard, long used to 
Samir's nocturnal wanderings, left them alone.
  
  "In Egypt are the real treasures,"  Samir said." The bodies of the Kings. This is but a 
fraction of what has been saved from pillage and from time."
  
  Ramses had paused. He was examining a Ptolemaic mummy case, one of those curious hybrid 
creations which consisted of an Egyptian coffin with a realistic Greek face painted upon 
it, rather than the stylized mask of earlier centuries. This was the coffin of a woman.
  
  "Egypt,"  Ramses whispered." Suddenly I cannot see the present for the past. I can't 
embrace this age until I have said my farewells to those years completely."
  
  Samir found himself shivering in the dark. The sweet sadness gave way to fear again, a 
deep silent terror of this unnatural thing which he knew now to be true. There could be 
no error.
  
  The King turned his back on the Egyptian rooms." Lead me out, my friend,"  he said." I 
am lost in this maze. I do not like the concept of a museum."
  
  Samir walked quickly at his side, the beam shining on the floor directly before them.
  
  "Sire, if you desire to go to Egypt, do it now. That is my advice to you, though I know 
you do not ask it. Take Julie Stratford if you will. But leave England."
  
  "Why do you say this?"
  
  "The authorities know that coins have been stolen from the collection! They want to 
reclaim the mummy of Ramses the Great. There is much talk and suspicion."
  
  Samir could see the menace hi Ramses' face." The accursed Henry Stratford,"  he said 
under his breath, quickening his pace ever so slightly." He poisoned his uncle, a man of 
learning and wisdom. His own flesh and blood. And stole from mat man a golden coin as the 
body lay dying."
  
  Samir stopped. The shock was more than he could bear. Instantly he knew it was true. He 
had known when he saw the body of his friend that something was terribly wrong. It had 
not been a natural death. But he had believed Henry Stratford a coward. Slowly he caught 
his breath. He looked at the tall shadowy figure standing beside him.
  
  "You tried to tell me this earlier tonight,"  he whispered." I didn't want to believe 
it."
  
  "I saw it, my beloved servant,"  the King said." With my own eyes. Just as I saw you 
come to the body of your friend Lawrence and begin to weep. These things were mixed with 
my waking dreams; but I remember them most clearly."
  
  "Ah, but this cannot go unavenged."  Samir was trembling.
  
  Ramses placed a hand on his shoulder. They proceeded slowly.
  
  "And this Henry Stratford knows my secret,"  Ramses said." The tale he told was true. 
For when he tried by the same means to take the life of his cousin, I came out of the 
coffin to prevent it. Oh, if only I had had my full strength, I would have finished it, 
there and then. I should have embalmed him myself and wrapped him up and put him in the 
painted coffin for all the world to see as Ramses."
  
  Samir smiled bitterly." A just reward,"  he said under his breath. He felt the tears on 
his face, but there was none of the relief that tears should bring." And what will you do 
now, sire?"
  
  "Kill him, of course. For Julie's sake and for my sake. There is no other possibility."
  
  "You wait for the opportunity?"
  
  "I wait for permission. Julie Stratford has the delicate conscience of one unused to 
bloodshed. She loves her uncle; she shrinks from violence. And I understand her 
reasoning, but I grow impatient. And angry. I want this Henry to threaten us no more."
  
  "And what of me? I too know your secret now, sire. Will you kill me to protect it?"
  
  Ramses stopped in his tracks." I don't ask kindnesses of those I mean to harm. But tell 
me. On your honour, who else knows the truth?"
  
  "Lord Rutherford, the cither of the young man who courts Julie. ..."
  
  "Ah, the one called Alex, with the gentle eyes."
  
  "Yes, sire. The father is a man to be reckoned with. He suspects. More significantly, 
he may believe, more earnestly even than young Stratford."
  
  "This knowledge is poison! As deadly as the poisons in my tomb. First there will be 
fascination, then greed, and finally desperation."
  
  They had reached the side door. The rain was coming down. Samir could see it through 
the thick glass, though he could not hear it.
  
  "Tell me why this knowledge isn't poison to you,"  Ramses asked.
  
  "I don't wish to live forever, sire."
  
  Silence.
  
  "I know. I can see this. But in my heart of hearts, I don't understand it."
  
  "Strange, sire, that I must give you explanations. You who must know things I shall 
never know."
  
  "I shall be grateful for the explanation."
  
  "I have found it hard enough to live this long as it is. I loved my friend. I fear for 
his daughter. I fear for you. I fear to acquire knowledge which I cannot use to any moral 
purpose."
  
  Again there was a pause.
  
  "You're a wise man,"  Ramses said." But don't fear for Julie. I will protect Julie, 
even from myself."
  
  "Take my advice and leave here. There are wild rumours. And the empty coffin, it will 
be discovered. But if you are gone, all this will die away. It has to die away. The 
rational mind cannot have it otherwise."
  
  "Yes. I will go. I must see Egypt again. I must see the modern city of Alexandria 
covering the palaces and streets I knew. I must see Egypt again merely to be done with 
it, and go on to the modern world. But when, that is the question."
  
  "You'll need papers to travel, sire. In this age, one cannot be a man without an 
identity. I can obtain those papers for you." Ramses considered. Then: "Tell me where I 
can find Henry Stratford."
  
  "I don't know that, sire. I might kill him myself now, if I did. He lodges with his 
father when he chooses. He keeps a mistress as well. I urge you to leave England now, and 
let this revenge wait for a proper moment. Let me get you the documents you need."
  
  Ramses nodded, but this was not a nod of agreement. He was merely acknowledging the 
generosity of the advice, Samir knew that.
  
  "How do I reward your loyalty, Samir?"  he asked." What do you want that I can give?"
  
  "To be near you, sire. To know you. To hear now and then the smallest part of your 
wisdom. You have eclipsed the mysteries I loved. You are the mystery now. But I ask 
nothing, really, except that for your own safety you go. And that you protect Julie 
Stratford."
  
  Ramses smiled approvingly.
  
  "Get the travel documents for me,"  he said.
  
  He reached into his pocket and produced a shining gold coin which Samir recognized 
immediately. He did not need to study the engraving.
  
  "No, sire, I cannot. This is not a coin any longer. It is more. ..."
  
  "Use it, my friend. There are many, many more where it came from. In Egypt I have 
riches hidden which I myself can no longer measure."
  
  Samir took the coin, though what he would do with it he was not certain.
</pre>
<!--N=5600 M=5800 pt=-->
  
  "I can get what you want."
  
  "And for yourself? Whatever is required that you might travel with us?"
  
  Samir felt his pulse quicken. He stared at the King's face, only partially revealed by 
the grey light through the door.
  
  "Yes, sire, if that's what you wish. I will gladly go with you."
  
  Ramses made a small polite gesture; Samir at once opened the door; Ramses gave him a 
little bow and passed out into the rain silently.
  
  For a long time, Samir stood there, feeling the cold spray from outside, yet not 
moving. Then he closed and locked the door. He walked through the dark corridors of the 
museum until he had reached the front foyer.
  
  A great statue of Ramses the Great stood there as it had for many years, greeting all 
those who entered the museum.
  
  It had brought only a passing smile from the King. But Samir stared at it, aware that 
his attitude was one of silent worship.
  
  Inspector Trent sat at his desk at Scotland Yard pondering. It was past two. Sergeant 
Gallon had long ago gone home. And he himself was tired. Yet he could not stop thinking 
of all the aspects of this strange case, which now encompassed a murder.
  
  He had never become accustomed to examining corpses. Yet he'd gone to the morgue to see 
the body of Tommy Sharpies for one very important reason. A rare Greek coin had been 
found in Sharples's pocket, a coin identical with the" Cleopatra coins"  in the Stratford 
collection. And there had been a small address book on Sharples's person as well, which 
contained the name and addresses of Henry Stratford.
  
  Henry Stratford, who had run out of his cousin's house in Mayfair this morning, crying 
that a mummy had climbed out of its coffin.
  
  Yes, a puzzle.
  
  That Henry Stratford possessed a rare Cleopatra coin would not have surprised anyone. 
He had tried to sell such a coin only two days ago, that was now almost certain. But why 
would he have tried to pay his debts with such a valuable piece of gold, and why did me 
thief who murdered Sharpies not steal it?
  
  Trent would call the British Museum about the coin first thing in the morning. That is, 
after he hauled Stratford out of bed and questioned him about the murder of Sharpies.
  
  But the whole thing didn't make sense. And then there was the question of the murder 
itself. Surely Henry Stratford hadn't done it. A gentleman like that could hold off his 
creditors for months. Beside, he just wasn't the sort to sink a knife into a man's chest, 
at least Trent didn't think so.
  
  But he wasn't the sort to run screaming from his cousin's house that a mummy had tried 
to strangle him either.
  
  And then there was another thing. A most disturbing thing. It was the manner in which 
Miss Stratford had responded when told of her cousin's mad story. She hadn't seemed 
shocked so much as coldly indignant. Why, the story itself didn't surprise her at all. 
And then there was that strange gentleman staying at her house and the way that Stratford 
had stared at him. The young woman had been hiding something, that was clear. Perhaps he 
should stop by and just have a look about the house, and talk with the guard for a little 
while.
  
  After all, he wasn't going to get any sleep tonight anyway.
  
  THE SMALL hours. Ramses stood in the hallway of Julie's palatial house, observing the 
intricately carved hands of the grandfather clock move into place. At last the big hand 
bisected the Roman numeral twelve, and the small hand bisected the Roman numeral four, 
and the clock began its deep, melodious chime.
  
  Roman numerals. Everywhere he looked he saw them; on cornerstones, in the pages of 
books; on the facades of buildings. In fact, the art, the language, the spirit of Rome 
ran through this entire culture, hooking it firmly to the past. Even the concept of 
justice which so strongly influenced Julie Stratford had come down not from the 
barbarians who once ruled this place with their crude ideas of revealed law and tribal 
vengeance, but from the courts and judges of Rome where reason had reigned.
  
  The great banks of the money changers were fashioned like Roman temples. Great marble 
statues of figures in Roman dress stood in public places. The curiously graceless houses 
that crowded this street had small Roman columns and even peristyles over the doors.
  
  He turned around and went back into the library of Lawrence Stratford and sat down 
again in the man's comfortable leather chair. He had placed lighted candles all about 
this room for his own pleasure, and now it had the very pitch of light he so loved. Of 
course the little maidservant would faint dead away in the morning when she saw the 
dripping wax everywhere, but never mind. She would certainly clean it away.
  
  He loved this room of Lawrence Stratford-Lawrence Stratford's books and his desk. 
Lawrence Stratford's gramophone playing" Beethoven,"  a medley of squeaky little horns 
that sounded oddly like a chorus of cats.
  
  How curious that he had taken possession of so much that had belonged to this 
white-haired Englishman who had broken down the door of his tomb.
  
  All day wearing Lawrence Stratford's stiff and heavy official garments. And now, at 
ease once again, in Lawrence Stratford's silk" pyjamas"  and satin robe. The most 
puzzling part of modern dress had been the man's leather shoes. Surely human feet were 
not meant to wear this kind of covering. It was more than a soldier needed to protect him 
in the heat of battle. Yet even the poor wore these little torture chambers, though some 
were lucky enough to have worn holes through the leather, making a rough sandal of sorts 
so their feet could breathe.
  
  He laughed at himself. After all he had seen today, he was thinking of shoes. His feet 
didn't hurt anymore. So why not forget it?
  
  No pain ever stayed with him very long; or any pleasure. For example, he smoked 
Lawrence Stratford's delicious cigars now, drawing in the smoke slowly, so that it made 
him dizzy. But the dizziness went away at once. So it was with the brandy as it always 
had been. He experienced drunkenness only for an instant, when he first swallowed and the 
delicious heat of the drink was still in his chest.
  
  His body simply threw off the effects of things. Yet he could taste and smell and feel. 
And the strange tinny music winding out of the gramophone gave him so much pleasure that 
he felt he might start weeping again.
  
  So much to enjoy. So much to study! Since coming back from the museum, he had torn 
through five or six books in the library of Lawrence Stratford. He had read complex and 
exhilarating discussions of the" Industrial Revolution."  He had dabbled a bit in the 
ideas of Karl Marx, which were sheer nonsense, as far as he could see. A rich man, it 
seemed, writing about poor men when he did not know how their minds worked. He had 
reexamined the world globe many times as he memorized the names of continents and 
countries. Russia, now that was an interesting country. And this America was the greatest 
mystery of all.
  
  Then he had read Plutarch, the liar! How dare the bastard say that Cleopatra had tried 
to seduce Octavian, her last conqueror. What a monstrous idea! There was something about 
Plutarch which made him think of old men gossiping as they gathered on benches in public 
squares. No gravitas to the history.
  
  But enough. Why think about that! There was a sudden confusion in him. What troubled 
him, made him a little afraid?
  
  Not all the wonders he'd discovered in this twentieth-century world since morning; not 
the coarse abrasive English language, which he had mastered before afternoon; not the 
length of time (hat had passed since he'd closed his eyes. What troubled him was this 
entire question of the way his body constantly restored itself-wounds healing; cramped 
feet relaxing; brandy having little or no effect.
  
  It was troubling him because for the first time in all his long existence he was 
beginning to wonder if his heart and mind were not subject to some similar system of 
uncontrollable renewal. Did mental pain leave him as easily as physical pain?
  
  Not possible. Yet if that was not so, why hadn't his little trip to the British Museum 
made him cry out in agony? Numb and silent, he had walked among mummies and sarcophagi 
and manuscripts stolen from all the dynasties of Egypt even to the time in which he had 
retreated from Alexandria to his last tomb in the Egyptian hills. Yet Samir had been the 
one who suffered, beautiful golden-skinned Samir, whose eyes were black as Ramses' had 
