  
  Suddenly she was startled by Henry's voice.
  
  "You're talking to that damned thing, just the way your father did."
  
  "Good Lord, I didn't know you were here! Where did you come from?"
  
  He stood in the archway between the two drawing rooms, his long serge cape hanging 
loosely from one shoulder. Unshaven, very likely drunk. And that smile of his. It was 
chilling.
  
  "I'm supposed to be looking out for you,"  he said," remember?"
  
  "Yes, of course. I'm sure you are absolutely delighted."
  
  "Where's the key to the drinks cupboard? It's locked, you know. Why the devil does 
Oscar do that?"
  
  "Oscar's gone till tomorrow. Perhaps you should have coffee, besides. That would do you 
the most good."
  
  "Would it now, my dear?"  He removed the cape as he walked arrogantly towards her, his 
eyes sweeping the Egyptian room as if he did not entirely approve of it." You never let 
me down, do you?"  he asked, and flashed that bitter smile again." My childhood playmate, 
my cousin, my little sister! I loathe coffee. I want some port or sherry."
  
  "Well, I have none,"  she said." Go on upstairs and sleep it off, why don't you?"
  
  Rita had come to the door, was waiting as if for instructions.
  
  "Coffee for Mr. Stratford, too, please, Rita,"  Julie said, because he hadn't moved. It 
was perfectly clear he wasn't going anywhere. He was staring at the mummy, in fact, as if 
it had startled him." Did Father really speak to him like that?"  she asked." The way I 
was doing?"
  
  He didn't immediately answer. He turned away, and moved to inspect the alabaster jars, 
even his posture slouching and arrogant.
  
  "Yes, talked to it as if it could talk back. And Latin of all things. If you ask me, 
your father had been sick for some time.
  
  Too many years in the desert heat squandering money on corpses and statues and trinkets 
and trash."
  
  How his words stung her. So careless, yet so hateful. He paused before one of the jars, 
with his back to her. In the mirror she saw him scowling down at it.
  
  "It was his money, wasn't it?"  she asked." He made enough for all of us, or so he 
thought."
  
  He turned around sharply.
  
  "What's that supposed to mean?"
  
  "Well, you haven't managed yours very well, have you?"
  
  "I've done the best I can. Who are you to judge me?"  he asked. Suddenly, with the 
sunlight harshly illuminating his face, he looked frighteningly vicious.
  
  "And what about the shareholders of Stratford Shipping? Have you done your best for 
them? Or is that quite beyond my judgment also?"
  
  "Be careful, my girl,"  he said. He drew close to her. He gave one arrogant glance to 
the mummy on his left almost as if it were another presence, another full person, and 
then he turned his shoulder to it a little, and narrowed his eyes as he looked at her." 
Father and I are the only family you have left now. You need us more than you think, 
perhaps. After all, what do you really know about trade or shipping?"
  
  How curious. He had made a good point and then ruined it. She needed them both, but it 
had nothing to do with trade and shipping. She needed them because they were her blood, 
and to hell with trade and shipping.
  
  She didn't want him to see the hurt in her. She turned away and looked down the length 
of the double drawing rooms, towards the pale northern windows on the front of the house, 
where the morning seemed scarcely to be happening.
  
  "I know how to add two and two, my dear cousin,"  she said." And that has put me in a 
very awkward and painful position."
  
  With relief, she watched Rita enter from the hall, her back bent uncomfortably as she 
carried the heavy silver coffee service. On the center table of the rear drawing room she 
set it down, only a few feet from where Julie stood.
  
  "Thank you, dear. That's all for now."
  
  With a pointed glance at the thing in the coffin, Rita was gone. And once again Julie 
was alone with this exquisitely painful moment. Slowly she turned and saw that her cousin 
was standing directly in front of Ramses." Then I should come right to the point,"  he 
said, and he turned around to face her. He reached up and loosened his silk tie, and then 
pulled it off and stuffed it in his pocket. His gait was almost shambling as he 
approached her.
  
  "I know what you want,"  she said." I know what you and Uncle Randolph both want. And 
more important, I know what you both need. What Father left you won't begin to cover your 
debts. Lord, but you've made a mess of things."
  
  "So sanctimonious,"  Henry said. He stood only a foot from her now, his back to the 
brightening sun and the mummy." The suffragette, the little archaeologist. And now you'll 
try your hand at business, will you?"
  
  "I'll try,"  she said coldly. His anger was igniting hers." What else can I do?"  she 
asked." Let it all slip through your father's hands! Lord, but I pity you!"
  
  "What are you trying to tell me?"  he asked. His breath stank of liquor, and his face 
was shadowed with coarse unshaven hair." That you'll ask for our resignations? Is that 
it?"
  
  "I don't know yet."  She turned her back on him. She walked into the front drawing room 
and opened the small secretaire. She sat down before it, and removed her book of bank 
drafts. And uncapped the inkwell.
  
  She could hear him pacing behind her as she wrote the cheque.
  
  "Tell me, cousin, does it feel good to have more than you can ever spend, more than you 
can ever count? And to have done nothing to get it?"
  
  She turned, her eyes down, and she gave him the cheque. She rose and went to the front 
window. She lifted the lace curtain and looked out at the street. Please go away, Henry, 
she thought dully, disconsolately. She didn't want to hurt her uncle. She didn't want to 
hurt anyone. But what could she do? She'd known for years about Randolph's embezzling. 
She and her father had discussed it last time she was in Cairo. Of course he had meant to 
take the situation in hand, always meant. And now it fell to her.
  
  She turned suddenly. The silence made her uneasy. She saw her cousin standing in the 
Egyptian room. He was staring at her, his eyes cold and seemingly lifeless.
  
  "And when you marry Alex, will you disinherit us as well?"
  
  "For the love of heaven, Henry. Go away and leave me alone."
  
  There was something stunning about his expression, about the sheer hardness of his 
face. He wasn't young anymore, was he? He looked ancient in his habits and in his guilt 
and in his self-deception. Have pity, she thought. What can you do to help him? Give him 
a fortune and it will be gone within a fortnight. She turned round again and looked out 
into the wintry London street.
  
  Early passersby. The nurse from across the way with the twins in their wicker carriage. 
An old man hurrying along with a newspaper under his arm. And the guard, the guard from 
</pre>
<!--N=2600 M=2800 pt=-->
the British Museum, slouching idly on the front steps just beneath her. And down the 
street, in front of her uncle Randolph's, Sally the parlour maid shaking a rug out the 
front door because she was sure that no one was awake to see.
  
  Why was there no sound behind her in the double rooms? Why didn't Henry storm out, 
slamming the front door? Perhaps he had left, but no, she heard a tiny furtive noise 
suddenly, a spoon touching china. The damned coffee.
  
  "I don't know how it could have come to this,"  she said, still gazing at the street 
before her." Trust funds, salaries, bonuses, you had everything, both of you."
  
  "No, not everything, my dear,"  he said." You have everything."
  
  Sound of coffee being poured. For the love of heaven!
  
  "Look, old girl,"  he said, his voice low and strained." I don't want this quarrel any 
more than you do. Come. Sit down. Let's have a cup of coffee together like civilized 
people."
  
  She couldn't move. The gesture seemed more sinister than his anger.
  
  "Come and have a cup of coffee with me, Julie."  Was there any way out of it? She 
turned, her eyes downcast, and moved towards the table, only looking up when it seemed 
unavoidable, to see Henry facing her, the steaming cup in his outstretched hand.
  
  There was something unaccountably odd about this, about the way he was offering it to 
her, about the peculiarly blank expression on his face.
  
  But this had no more than a second to register. For what she saw behind him caused her 
to freeze in her tracks. Reason ruled against it, but the evidence of her senses was 
undeniable.
  
  The mummy was moving. The mummy's right arm was outstretched, the torn wrappings 
hanging from it, as the being stepped out of its gilded box! The scream froze in her 
throat. The tiling was coming towards her-towards Henry, who stood with his back to 
it-moving with a weak, shuffling gait, that arm outstretched before it, the dust rising 
from the rotting linen that covered it, a great smell of dust and decay filling the room.
  
  "What the devil's the matter with you!"  Henry demanded. But the thing was now directly 
behind him. The outstretched hand closed on Henry's throat.
  
  Her scream would not break loose. Petrified, she heard only a dry shriek inside her, 
like the impotent cries of her worst dreams.
  
  Henry turned, hands rising reflexively to protect himself, the coffee cup falling with 
a clatter to the silver tray. A low roar escaped his lips as he fought the thing 
strangling him. His fingers clasped at the filthy wrappings; the dust rose in gusts as 
the creature tore its left arm loose from the bindings, and sought to pinion its victim 
with both hands.
  
  With an ignominious scream, Henry threw the creature off him, and pitched forward on 
all fours. In an instant he was on his feet and scrambling across the carpet. He ran 
through the front room and over the marble tile of the front hall to the door.
  
  Speechless, terrified, Julie stared at the ghastly figure who knelt beside the center 
table. The thing was panting, struggling for breath. She scarcely heard the front door 
open or slam shut.

  
  Never in her whole life had there been a moment so devoid of reason. Shivering 
violently, she backed away in horror from this ragged being, this dead thing that had 
come to life, and seemed now unable to rise to its feet.
  
  Was it looking at her? Were those eyes glinting through the ragged bandages? Blue eyes? 
It reached out for her. Her body was caught in a cold involuntary shudder. A wave of 
dizziness passed over her. Don't faint. Whatever happens, don't Joint.
  
  Suddenly it turned away. Quite deliberately it looked towards its coffin, or was it the 
conservatory with the light pouring through its roof? It lay as if exhausted on the 
Oriental carpet, and then it reached out as if towards the great flood of morning sun.
  
  She could hear its breathing again. Alive! Dear God, alive! It struggled to move 
forward, lifting its powerful torso only a little off the carpet and propelling itself 
with a sluggish movement of its knees.
  
  Out of the shadowy drawing room it crawled inch by inch away from her until suddenly it 
reached the farthest rays of the
  
  sun penetrating the library. There it stopped, and seemed to breathe deeply as if 
actually breathing not air but light. It lifted itself a little higher on its elbows, and 
began to crawl towards the conservatory again with greater speed. The linen bandages 
trailed from its legs. A path of dust was left on the rug. The bandages on its aims were 
falling to pieces. Fragments of linen broke loose and appeared to disintegrate in the 
light.
  
  Without a conscious decision, she moved behind it, keeping a safe distance, yet quite 
unable to stop herself from following it, from staring as if spellbound at its grim 
progress through the conservatory doors.
  
  Into the hottest glare of the sun it moved, and suddenly it stopped beside the fountain 
and rolled over on its back. One hand reached up towards the glass ceiling; the other 
fell limp on its chest.
  
  Silently, Julie moved into the conservatory. Still trembling uncontrollably, she went 
closer and closer until she was staring directly down at this thing.
  
  The body was filling out in the sunlight! It was growing ever more robust as she 
watched! She could hear the sound of the wrappings releasing it. She could see the chest 
rising and falling with regular breath.
  
  And the face, my God, the face. There were eyes there, great shining blue eyes under 
the thin wrappings. It reached up suddenly and tore loose the bandages. Yes, large and 
beautiful blue eyes. With another rip, it tore the bandages from its skull and released a 
soft mop of brown hair.
  
  Then it rose on its knees with quiet grace and reached down into the fountain with its 
bandaged hands, scooping up the sparkling water to its lips. It drank and drank the 
water, with deep sighing gulps. Then it stopped and turned towards her, wiping away more 
of the thick ashen layer of linen from its face.
  
  A man looking at her! A blue-eyed man with intelligence looking at her!
  
  That scream rose again, but was not released. Only a soft sigh came out of her. Or was 
it a gasp? She realized she had taken a step backwards. The thing climbed to its feet.
  
  It rose now to its full height and gazed calmly at her, its fingers working almost 
absently to clear the rest of the rotted bandages from its head as if they were cobwebs. 
Yes, a full head of dark wavy brown hair. It fell to just below the ears, and came now 
softy over the forehead. And the eyes evinced fascination as it looked at her. Good Lord, 
imagine! Fascination as it looked at her.
  
  She was going to faint. She had read about it. She knew what it was, though it had 
never happened to her. But her legs were literally going out from under her and things 
were going dim. No. Stop! She couldn't faint with this thing staring at her.
  
  This was the mummy come to life!
  
  She backed into the Egyptian room, legs trembling; her body moist all over, her hands 
clawing at her face peignoir.
  
  It watched her as if genuinely curious as to what she meant to do. Then it wiped more 
of the bandages away from its neck and its shoulders and its chest. Its broad naked 
chest. She closed her eyes, and then opened them slowly. Still there, with those powerful 
arms, and the dust falling from its lustrous brown hair.
  
  It took a step towards her. She backed away. It took another step. She backed up 
farther. In fact, she was backing up all the way across the library, and very suddenly 
she felt the centre table of the second drawing room behind her. She felt her hands touch 
the edge of the silver coffee tray.
  
  With silent, even steps it came towards her-this thing, this beautiful man with the 
splendid body and the large gentle blue eyes.
  
  Good Lord, are you losing your reason! Never mind that it's handsome! It just tried to 
strangle Henry! Quickly she darted around the table, groping behind her with outstretched 
hands as she moved towards the front drawing room doors.
  
  It stopped as it reached the table. It looked down at the silver coffeepot and the 
overturned cup. It picked up something off the tray. What was it? A wadded handkerchief. 
Had Henry left it there? Quite unmistakably it pointed to the spilt coffee, and then in a 
soft, resonant and distinctly masculine voice it spoke:
  
  "Come and have a cup of coffee with me, Julie!"  it said.
  
  Perfect British accent! Familiar words! Julie felt a shock course through her. This was 
no invitation from the thing. Why, it was imitating Henry. Same precise intonation. 
That's what Henry had said!
  
  It held out the handkerchief, which it had opened. White powder, sparkling as if full 
of tiny crystals. It pointed to the distant row of alabaster jars. The top was missing 
from one of the jars! And again it spoke with the same flawless, crisp English accent:
  
  "Drink your coffee, Uncle Lawrence."
  
  A groan escaped her lips. The meaning was unmistakable. She stood there staring, the 
words echoing in her head. Henry had poisoned her father and this creature had witnessed 
it. Henry had tried to poison her. With all her spirit she tried to deny it. She tried to 
find some reason that it could not be so. But she knew it was so. Just as surely as she 
knew this thing was alive and breathing and occupying space before her, and that it was 
the immortal Ramses come to life out of those decayed wrappings, standing before her in 
the drawing room with the sun at its back.
  
  Her legs were going out from under her. No way to prevent it, and the darkness was 
rising. And as she felt herself slip downwards, she saw the tall figure dart forward, and 
she felt the strong arms catch her and lift her and hold her quite firmly, so that she 
felt almost safe.
  
  She opened her eyes, and looked up into its face. No, his face. His beautiful face. She 
heard Rita scream from the hallway. And the darkness rose again.
  
  "What the hell are you saying!"  Randolph was not really fully awake. He struggled out 
of the tangle of covers, reaching for his crumpled silk robe at the foot of the bed." 
You're telling me you left your cousin there alone in that house with this thing!"
  
  "I'm telling you it tried to kill me!"  Henry roared like a madman." That's what I'm 
telling you! The damned thing got out of the coffin and tried to strangle me with its 
right hand!"
  
  "Damn it, where are my slippers! She's alone in that house, you fool!"
  
  Barefoot, he ran into the hall and down the stairway, his robe ballooning behind him.
  
  "Hurry, you imbecile!"  he shouted to his son, who hesitated at the top of the steps.
  
  She opened her eyes. She was sitting on the sofa, and Rita was clinging to her. Rita 
was hurting her. Rita was making little whimpering sounds.
  
  And there was the mummy, standing right there. Nothing about it imagined. Not the dark 
lock of hair fallen down on his smooth broad forehead. Or his deep shadowy blue eyes. He 
had torn loose more of the rotted stuff that covered him. He was bare to the waist, a 
</pre>
<!--N=2800 M=3000 pt=-->
god, it seemed at the moment. Especially with that smile. That warm and embracing smile. 
His hair seemed to be moving as she looked at it, as if it were growing before her eyes. 
It was fuller and more lustrous than it had been before she fainted. But what in God's 
name was she doing, staring at this creature's hair!
  
  He drew a little closer. His bare feet were free of the cumbersome wrappings.
  
  "Julie,"  he said softly.
  
  "Ramses,"  she whispered back.
  
  The creature nodded, the smile lengthening." Ramses!"  he said emphatically, and he 
made her a very subtle bow with his head.
  
  Dear God, she thought, this is not merely a man gifted with beauty; this is the most 
beautiful man I've ever seen.
  
  In a daze, she forced herself to climb to her feet. Rita clung to her, but she 
struggled free of Rita, and then the mummy-the man-reached out and took her hand and 
helped her to stand.
  
  The fingers were warm, dusty. She found herself staring right into his face. Skin like 
the skin of any other human being, only smoother, perhaps softer, and full of more high 
colour-like that of a man who had been running, the cheeks faintly flushed.
  
  He turned his head sharply. She heard it too. Voices outside; argument. A motor car had 
pulled up in front of the house.
  
  Rita made an awkward dash to the window as if the mummy were going to stop her.
  
  "It's Scotland Yard, miss, thank God for that."
  
  "No, but this is a disaster! Bolt the door at once."
  
  "But miss!"
  
  "Bolt it. Now."
  
  Rita ran to obey. Julie took Ramses' hand.
  
  "Come with me, upstairs, immediately,"  she said to him." Rita, put the lid on that 
coffin. It weighs almost nothing. Close it up fast and come."
  
  No sooner had Rita slid the bolt than they were knocking and pulling the bell. The 
shrill clanging from the back of the house startled Ramses. His eyes moved quickly over 
the ceiling and to the back of the house as though he had heard the sound traveling the 
wire to the kitchen wall.
  
  Julie tugged him gently but urgently, and to her amazement he followed easily as they 
made their way up the stairs.
  
  She could hear little cries of distress coming from Rita. But Rita was doing as she had 
been told. Julie heard the thump as the lid of the coffin slid into place.
  
  And Ramses, he was staring at the wallpaper, at the framed portraits, at the knickknack 
shelf nestled in the corner at the top of the stairs. He was looking at the stained-glass 
window. He looked down at the wool carpet with its pattern of feathers and twisted leaves.
  
  The pounding was becoming quite impossible. Julie could hear her uncle Randolph calling 
her name.
  
  "What shall I do, miss?"  Rita called out.
  
  "Come up at once."  She looked at Ramses, who was watching her with a strange mixture 
of patience and amusement." You look normal,"  she whispered." Perfectly normal. 
Beautiful, but normal."  She pulled him on down the hallway." The bath, Rita!"  she 
shouted as Rita appeared, quivering and tentative, behind him." Quick. Run the bath."
  
  She brought him on towards the front of the house as Rita hurried past. They had 
stopped their pounding for a minute. She could hear the grind of a key in the lock. But 
the bolt, thank God for that! The pounding started again.
  
  Ramses was truly smiling at her now, as if he were about to laugh. He peered into the 
bedrooms as he passed them. Suddenly he saw the electric chandelier hanging on its dusty 
chain from the ceiling rose above. The tiny light bulbs looked dull and opaque in the 
daylight, but they were burning, and he narrowed his eyes to study this, gently resisting 
her for the first time.
  
  "Later you can see it!"  she said in panic. The water was roaring into the tub. The 
steam was pouring out of the door.
  
  He gave her another decorous little nod with a slight lift of his eyebrows, and 
followed her into the bath. The shining tile seemed to please him. He turned slowly to 
the window and stared at the sunlight sparkling in the frosted glass. Gently he examined 
the latch and then he opened the window, pushing out on the two sides until he could see 
the rooftops spread out before him and the brilliant morning sky above.
  
  "Rita, Father's clothes,"  Julie said breathlessly. They were going to break down that 
door any minute." Hurry, get his robe, slippers, a shirt, whatever you can lay hands on 
at once."
  
  Ramses lifted his chin and closed his eyes. He was drinking in the sunlight. Julie 
could see his hair moving ever so slightly; tiny tendrils at his forehead curling. The 
hair seemed to grow thicker. It was growing thicker.
  
  Of course. This is what woke him from the dream-filled sleep, she realized. The sun! 
And he had been too weak to do more than struggle with Henry. He had had to crawl into 
the sunlight before he could gain his full strength.
  
  There were shouts of" Police"  from below. Rita came running with a pair of slippers in 
her hand, and a pile of clothing over her arm.

  "There's reporters out there, miss; a whole crowd of them, and Scotland Yard and your 
uncle Randolph ..."
  
  "Yes, I know. Go down now and tell them we'll be right there, but don't draw back the 
bolt!"
  
  Julie took the silk bathrobe and white shirt and put them on the hook. She touched 
Ramses' shoulder.
  
  He turned and looked at her and the immediate warmth of his smile astonished her.
  
  "Britannia,"  he said softly, his eyes moving from right to left as though to encompass 
the spot on which they stood.
  
  "Yes, Britannia!"  she said. A sudden lovely giddiness took hold of her. She pointed to 
the bath." Lavare!"  she said. Didn't that mean wash?
  
  He nodded, his eyes taking in everything around him-the brass taps, the steam billowing 
up from the deep tub. He looked at the clothing.
  
  "For you!"  she said, pointing at the robe and then at Ramses. Oh, if only she could 
remember the Latin." Vestments,"  she said desperately.
  
  And then he did laugh. Softly, gently, indulgently. And she found herself petrified 
again, staring at him, at the smooth shimmering beauty of his face. Lovely even white 
teeth he had, flawless skin and such an oddly commanding manner as he gazed at her. But 
then he was Ramses the Great, wasn't he? She was going to faint again if she didn't stop 
this.
  
  She backed out the door.
  
  "Reste!"  she said." Lavare."  She made pleading gestures with both her hands. Then she 
went to leave, and quite suddenly his powerful right hand closed on her wrist.
  
  Her heart stopped altogether.
  
  "Henry!"  he said softly. His face took on an air of menace, but not towards her.
  
  Slowly she caught her breath. She could hear Rita screaming at the men to stop their 
banging. Someone was shouting back from the street.
  
  "No, don't worry about Henry. Not now. I'll take care of Henry, you can be sure."  Oh, 
but he wouldn't understand this. Again she gestured for his patience, his forbearance, 
and then she gently removed his hand from her wrist. He nodded, let her go. She backed 
away again, and then shut the door and ran down the hallway and down the stairs.
  
  "Let me in, Rita!"  Randolph was shouting.
  
  Julie almost stumbled on the bottom step. She rushed into the drawing room. The lid was 
in place on the coffin! Would they see that faint trail of dust on the floor? But no one 
would believe it! She wouldn't have believed it!
  
  She stopped, closed her eyes, breathed deeply, and then told Rita to go ahead and open 
the door.
  
  She turned, a rather prim expression fixed on her face, and watched as her uncle 
Randolph, dishevelled and barefoot, wearing only his dressing gown, came into the room. 
The museum guard was right behind him, and two gentlemen who appeared to be police in 
plainclothes, though she did not know precisely why.
  
  "What hi the world is the matter?"  she asked." You woke me from a sound sleep on the 
sofa. What time is it?"  She looked about in confusion." Rita, what is going on?"
  
  "I'm sure I don't know, miss!"  Rita almost screamed. Julie gestured for her to be 
quiet.
  
  "Oh, my dear, 1 was terrified,"  Randolph answered." Henry said ..."
  
  "Yes? Henry said what?"
  
  The two gentlemen in greatcoats were looking at the spilled coffee. One of them was 
staring at the open handkerchief with its white powder spilled out on the floor. How very 
like sugar it looked in the sunlight. And there was Henry, suddenly, hovering at the 
hallway door.
  
  She stared at him for a sullen moment. Killed my father! But she could not allow 
herself to feel it just now. She could not allow herself to believe it or she would go 
mad. She saw him again in her mind's eye, holding out that coffee cup for her; she saw 
his wooden expression, his pale face.
  
  "Whatever is the matter with you, Henry?"  she asked coldly, suppressing die quaver in 
her voice." You ran out of here half an hour ago as if you'd seen a ghost."
  
  "You know damned well what happened,"  he whispered. He was blanched and sweating. He 
had taken out his handkerchief and he wiped his upper lip, his hand trembling so badly 
that she could see it.
  
  "Get a grip on yourself,"  Randolph said, turning to his son." Now what the devil did 
you see?"
  
  "The question is, miss,"  said the shorter of the two Scotland Yard men," has there 
been some sort of intruder in this house?"
  
  A gentleman's voice and manner. The fear was leaving her. She could feel her conviction 
returning as she spoke." Indeed not, sir. My cousin saw an intruder? Henry, you must have 
a guilty conscience. You're having hallucinations. I saw no one here."
  
  Randolph eyed Henry furiously. The Scotland Yard men appeared confused.
</pre>
<!--N=3000 M=3200 pt=-->
  
  Henry himself was in a silent rage. He glared at her as if he meant to strangle her 
wirn his bare hands. And she glared right back at him, thinking coldly, You killed my 
father. You would have killed me.
  
  We do not know how we shall feel at such moments. We cannot know, she thought. I only 
know that I hate you, and I have never hated another human being in my life.
  
  "That mummy case!"  Henry blurted out suddenly. He clung to the door as if he didn't 
dare to come into the room." I want that mummy case opened now."
  
  "You are really past all patience. No one shall touch that mummy case. It contains a 
priceless relic, which belongs to the British Museum and must not be exposed to the air."
  
  "What the hell do you mean saying these things!"  he shouted. He was becoming 
hysterical.
  
  "Be quiet,"  Randolph said to him." I've heard quite enough!"
  
  There was noise from outside, voices. Someone had come all the way up the steps and was 
peering through the front door.
  
  "Henry, I won't have this confusion in my house,"  Julie said shortly.
  
  The Scotland Yard man studied Henry coldly.
  
  "Sir, if the lady does not want the premises searched ..."
  
  "Indeed, I do not,"  Julie responded." I think quite enough of your time has been 
wasted. As you can see, nothing here has been disturbed."
  
  Of course die coffee cup was lying on its side on the plate and the handkerchief was on 
the floor, but she stood her ground coldly, eyes moving from Henry to the officer. And 
then to the other officer, who was scrutinizing her just a little too carefully, though 
he did not offer a word.
  
  None of them saw what she saw-the figure of Ramses coming slowly down the stairs. They 
did not see him come across the front hallway and silently enter the room. That is, until 
Julie could not tear her eyes off him, and the others realized it and turned to see the 
source of her fascination-the tall brown-haired man in the dark burgundy silk bathrobe 
standing in the door.
  
  She was breathless looking at him. Majestic. It was what all Kings should be. Yet he 
looked otherworldly as though his court had been a place of superhumans. Men of uncommon 
strength and grand bearing, with vivid and piercing eyes.
  
  Even the robe with its satin lapels looked exotic on him. The slippers were like those 
from an ancient tomb. The white shirt he wore was unbuttoned, yet that looked curiously" 
normal,"  perhaps because his skin had that robust glow to it, and because he thrust his 
chest slightly forward and stood with feet firmly planted on the floor at parade rest as 
no modern man would do. This was the posture for commanding subservience, but there was 
nothing arrogant in his expression. He merely looked at her and at Henry, who had flushed 
red to the roots of his dark hair.
  
  Henry stared at the open shirt. He stared at the scarab ring that Ramses wore on his 
right hand. Both the inspectors were staring at him. And Randolph seemed absolutely 
baffled. Did he recognize the robe he'd given his brother? Rita had backed up against the 
wall and covered her mouth with her hands.
  
  "Uncle Randolph,"  Julie said as she stepped forward." This is a good friend of 
Father's, just arrived here from Egypt. An Egyptologist whom Father knew quite well. Ah 
... Mr. Ramsey, Reginald Ramsey. I want you to meet my uncle, Randolph Stratford, and 
this is his son, Henry ..."
  
  Ramses studied Randolph, then locked his eyes on Henry again. Henry was staring 
stupidly back at Ramses. Julie made a little gesture to Ramses for patience.
  
  "I think this is not the time for a social gathering,"  she said awkwardly." Really, I 
am quite tired, and caught off guard by all this..."
  
  "Well, Miss Stratford, perhaps it was this gentleman your cousin saw,"  said the genial 
policeman.
  
  "Oh, it very well might have been,"  she answered." But I must take care of my guest 
now. He's had no breakfast. I must..."  Henry knew! She could see it. She struggled to 
say something civil and appropriately meaningless. That it was past eight o'clock. That 
she was hungry. Henry was shrinking into the comer. And Ramses was staring at Henry as 
Ramses moved behind the two Scotland Yard men, towards that handkerchief, and now with a 
very graceful and quick gesture, he gathered it up from the floor. No one saw this but 
Julie and Henry. Glaring at Henry, Ramses shoved the handkerchief into the pocket of his 
robe.
  
  Randolph was staring at her in utter perplexity; one of the Scotland Yard men was 
plainly bored.
  
  "You're all right, my dear!"  said Randolph." You're certain."
  
  "Oh, yes, I am indeed."  She went to him at once, and taking his arm, guided him to the 
door. The Scotland Yard men followed.
  
  "My name is Inspector Trent, madam,"  said the vocal one." And this is my partner, 
Sergeant Gallon. You must call us if you need us."
  
  "Yes, of course,"  she said. Henry appeared on the verge of an outburst. Suddenly he 
bolted, almost knocking her over, and rushed out the open door and through the crowd 
gathered on the steps.
  
  "Was it the mummy, sir!"  someone shouted." Did you see the mummy walk!"
  
  "Was it the curse!"
  
  "Miss Stratford, are you unharmed!"
  
  The Scotland Yard men exited immediately, Inspector Trent ordering the crowd to 
disperse at once.
  
  "Well, what the devil is the matter with him!"  Randolph muttered." I don't understand 
all this."
  
  Julie held his arm all the tighter. No, he couldn't possibly know what Henry had done. 
He would never have done anything to hurt Father, not really. But how could she be sure? 
On impulse she kissed him. She slipped her hand onto the back of her uncle's neck, and 
kissed his cheek.
  
  "Don't worry, Uncle Randolph,"  she said suddenly. And she felt herself on the verge of 
tears.
  
  Randolph shook his head. He was humiliated, even a little afraid, and she felt 
tragically sorry for him as she watched him go. Sorrier than she had ever felt for anyone 
in her life. She did not realize he was barefoot until he was halfway down the street.
  
  The reporters were following him. As the Scotland Yard men drove away, a pair of the 
reporters doubled back, and she retreated quickly, slamming the door. She peered out 
through the glass at the distant figure of her uncle rushing up his own front steps.
  
  Then slowly she turned and came back into the front room.
  
  Silence. The faint singing of the fountain in the conservatory. A horse passing at a 
brisk trot in the street outside. Rita shivering in the corner, with her apron a little 
knot in her feverishly working hands.
  
  And Ramses, motionless, in the middle of the room. He stood with his arms folded, 
looking at her, feet slightly apart as before. The sun was a warm golden haze behind him, 
leaving his face in shadow. And the deep radiance of his eyes was almost as distracting 
as the high sheen of his full hair.
  
  For the first time she understood the simple meaning of the word regal. And another 
word came to her, quite unfamiliar yet perfectly appropriate. It was comely. And it 
struck her that no small part of his beauty was his expression. He appeared wonderfully 
clever, and wonderfully curious, though quite collected, all at the same time. 
Otherworldly, yet perfectly normal. Grander than human; but human nonetheless.
  
  He merely looked at her. The deep folds of the long heavy satin robe moved ever so 
faintly in the soft current of warm air from the conservatory doors.
  
  "Rita, leave us,"  she whispered.
  
  "But miss ..."
  
  "Go."
  
  Silence again. Then he came towards her. No trace of a smile; only a gentle 
seriousness, eyes widening a little as he appeared to study her face, her hair, her dress.
  
  How must this flimsy lace peignoir look to him? she thought suddenly. Good Lord, does 
he think the women of these times wear such things about the house and on the street? But 
he was not looking at the lace. He was staring at the shape of her breasts beneath the 
loose silk, at the contour of her hips. He looked at her face again and there was no 
mistaking his expression. It was passionate suddenly. He drew closer and reached out for 
her shoulders and she felt his warm fingers tighten.
  
  "No,"  she said.
  
  She shook her head emphatically and she stepped back. She straightened her shoulders, 
trying not to admit her fear, or the sudden delicious chill that ran up her back and down 
her arms." No,"  she said again with a faint touch of disapproval.
  
  And as she watched, on the edge of fear, the warmth in her breasts astonishing her, he 
nodded, backed away and smiled. He made a little open gesture with his hands. He spoke in 
a soft riff of Latin. She caught her name, the word regina, and the word she knew meant 
house. Julie is Queen in her house.
  
  She nodded.
  
  Her sigh of relief was impossible to disguise. She was shaking again, all over. Could 
he see it? Of course.
  
  He made a gesture of asking:
  
  "Panis, Julie,"  he whispered . "Vinum. Panis."  He narrowed his eyes, as if searching 
for a proper word. "Edere,"  he whispered, and gestured gracefully to his lips.
  
  "Oh! I know what you're saying. Food, you want food. You want wine and bread."  She 
hurried to the doorway. " Rita,"  she called out." He's hungry. Rita, we must get him 
something to eat at once."
  
  She turned around to see him smiling at her again, with that great warmth of affection 
she had seen upstairs. He found her pleasing to look at, did he? If only he knew that she 
found him almost irresistible, that a moment before she had almost locked her arms around 
him and- Best not to think of that. No, mustn't think of that at all.
  
  ELLIOT SAT back in the wing chair, staring forward at the coal fire. He was as close as 
possible to the grate, his slippered feet on the fender. The heat could soothed the pain 
in his legs and in his hands. He was listening to Henry, veering between impatience and 
an unexpected fascination. God's vengeance upon Henry had been almost complete for his 
sins. Henry was a scandal.
  
  "You must have imagined it!"  Alex said.
  
  "But I am telling you that damned thing got out of that mummy case and came at me. It 
</pre>
<!--N=3200 M=3400 pt=-->
strangled me. I felt its hand on me; I looked up into its filthy bandaged face."
  
  "Definitely imagined it,"  Alex said.
  
  "Imagined it, hell!"
  
  Elliott glanced up at the two young men at the end of the mantel shelf to his right. 
Henry, unshaven, trembling, the glass of Scotch in his hand. And Alex, immaculate, his 
hands as clean as a nun's.
  
  "And this Egyptologist fellow, you're saying that he and the mummy are one and the 
same? Henry, you've been out all night, haven't you? You've been drinking with that girl 
from the Music Hall. You've been-"
  
  "Well, where the hell did the bastard come from if he's not the mummy!"
  
  Elliott laughed softly. He gave the coals a poke with the tip of his silver cane. Henry 
went on undaunted.
  
  "He wasn't there last night! He came down the stairs in Uncle Lawrence's bathrobe! And 
you haven't seen this man! He's no ordinary man. Anybody who looks at him can tell he's 
not ordinary."
  
  "He's alone there now? With Julie?"
  
  It took so long for Alex to put things together, trusting soul.
  
  "That's what I've been trying to tell you. My God! Isn't there anyone in London who 
will listen to me?"  Henry gulped the Scotch, went to the sideboard and filled his glass 
again." And Julie's protecting him. Julie knows what happened. She saw the thing come at 
me!"
  
  "You're doing yourself a disservice with this story,"  Alex said gently." No one's 
going to believe-"
  
  "You realize those papyri, those scrolls,"  Henry sputtered." They talk about some kind 
of immortal something. Lawrence was talking about it to that Samir fellow, something 
about Ramses the Second wandering for a thousand years-"
  
  "I thought it was Ramses the Great,"  Alex interrupted.
  
  "They are one and the same, you numbskull. Ramses the Second, Ramses the Great, Ramses 
the Damned. It was all in those scrolls, I tell you-about Cleopatra and this Ramses. 
Didn't you read it in the papers? I thought Uncle Lawrence was going soft from the heat."
  
  "I think you need a rest, possibly in hospital. All this talk of a curse-"
  
  "Damn it, don't you understand me! It's worse than a curse. The thing tried to kill me. 
It moved, I tell you. It's alive."
  
  Alex stared at Henry with a thinly veiled look of revulsion. Same look he reserves for 
newspapers, Elliott thought glumly.
  
  "I'm going to see Julie. Father, if you'll excuse ..."
  
  "Of course, that's exactly what you should do."  Elliott looked into the fire again." 
See about this Egyptologist person. Where he came from. She shouldn't be alone in that 
house with a stranger. It's absurd."
  
  "She's alone in that house with the damned mummy!"  Henry growled.
  
  "Henry, why don't you go home and get some sleep?"  Alex asked." I shall see you later, 
Father."
  
  "You bloody twit!"
  
  Alex ignored the insult. It seemed an amazingly easy insult
  
  to ignore. Henry emptied the glass again and went back to the sideboard.
  
  Elliott listened to the chink of the bottle against the glass." And this man, this 
mysterious Egyptologist, did you catch his name?"  he asked.
  
  "Reginald Ramsey, try that one on for size. And I could swear she made it up on the 
spot."  He came back to the mantel shelf, resting his elbow on it, with a full tumbler of 
Scotch, which he sipped slowly, his eyes darting anxiously away as Elliott looked up." I 
didn't hear him speak a word of English; and you should have seen the look in his eye. I 
'm telling you-you've got to do something!"
  
  "Yes, but precisely what?"
  
  "How the hell should I know? Catch the damned thing, that's what!"
  
