saw no more British shops or English signs. Only Egyptians passed him, and for the most 
part they were old women in pairs, with veils over their faces and their hair. They 
averted their eyes at once from his bloodstained shirt and torn clothes.
  
  Finally he stepped into a doorway and rested, and then slowly slipped his hand into his 
coat. The wound was healed on the outside, though he could still feel the throbbing 
inside. He felt the broad strip of the moneybelt. The vials were intact.
  
  The cursed vials! Would that he had never taken the elixir from its hiding place in 
London! Or that he had sealed the powder into a clay vessel and sunk the vessel into the 
sea!
  
  What would the soldiers have done with the liquid if they had got their hands on it? He 
could not bear to dwell on how close he had come to that possibility.
  
  But the thing now was to return to the museum! He must find her! And to dwell on what 
had befallen her in the interim was more than he could bear.
  
  Never in ah1 his existence had he" experienced the regret which he was feeling now. But 
it was done! He had succumbed to the temptation. He had awakened the half-rotted body 
lying in that case.
  
  And he must find the results of his folly. He must learn whether a spark of intellect 
existed inside it!
  
  Ah, but whom was he deceiving! She had called his name!
  
  He turned and hurried down the alley. A disguise, that's what he needed. And he had no 
time to purchase it. He must take it where he could. Laundry, he had seen ropes of 
laundry. He rushed on, until he saw another such rope sagging across a narrow passageway 
to his left.
  
  Bedouin garments-the long-sleeved robe and the headdress. He tore these down at once. 
Discarding his jacket, he put them on, and then cut a bit of the rope itself to tie 
around his head.
  
  Now he looked like an Arab except for the blue eyes. But then he knew where he might 
get a pair of dark glasses. He'd seen them in the bazaar. And that was on the way back to 
the museum. He headed out at a dead run.
  
  * * *
  
  Henry had been almost dead drunk since he'd come from Shepheard's the day before. The 
brief talk with Elliott had had a peculiar effect on him somehow; it had sapped his nerve.
  
  He tried to remind himself that he loathed Elliott Savarell and that he himself was 
pressing on to America, where he'd never see Elliott or anyone like him again.
  
  Yet the meeting haunted him. Every time he sobered up just a little he saw Elliott 
again, staring at him with absolute contempt. He heard the cold hatred in Elliott's voice.
  
  A lot of nerve Elliott had, turning on him like this. Years ago, after a brief and 
stupid affair, Henry had had it in his power to destroy Elliot, but he had not done so 
for no other reason than it would have been a cruel thing to do. He had always presumed 
that Elliott was grateful for that; that Elliott's patience and politeness signaled that 
gratitude. For Elliott had been unfailingly courteous to him over the years.
  
  Not so yesterday. And the awful thing about it was that the hatred Elliot evinced had 
been a mirror image of the hatred Henry felt for everyone he knew. It had soured Henry 
and embittered him.
  
  And it had also frightened him.
  
  Have to get away from them, all of them, he reasoned. They do nothing but criticize me 
and misjudge me when they are not worth a tinker's damn themselves.
  
  When they had left Cairo, he would clean himself up, stop drinking, go back to 
Shepheard's and sleep in peace for a few days. Then he'd strike the bargain with his 
father and head out to America with the considerable little fortune he'd saved.
  
  But for the moment, he had no intention of curtailing the parry. There would be no card 
game today; he would take it easy, and enjoy the Scotch without distraction; merely 
dozing in his rattan chair, and eating the food Malenka prepared for him if and when he 
chose.
  
  Malenka herself had become a bit of a nag. She had just cooked an English breakfast for 
him and wanted him to come to the table. He had slapped her with the back of his hand, 
and told her to leave him alone.
  
  Nevertheless she went on with her preparations. He could hear the kettle whistling. She 
had set china out on the small rattan table in the courtyard.
  
  Well, to hell with her. He had three bottles of Scotch, which was plenty. Maybe he 
would lock her out later if there was a
  
  chance. He loved the idea of being all alone here. Of drinking and smoking and 
dreaming. And maybe listening to the gramophone. He was even getting used to that damned 
parrot.
  
  As he dozed off now, the parrot was screeching and clucking and walking back and forth, 
upside down, on the ceiling of its cage. African greys liked to do things like that. In 
truth the thing looked like a giant bug to him. Maybe he should kill it when Malenka 
wasn't here.
  
  He felt himself drifting, dozing, on the edge of dream. He took one more sip of Scotch, 
so smooth, and let his head roll to the side. Julie's house; the library; that thing at 
his shoulder; the scream curled at the back of his throat.
  
  "God!"  He shot forward out of the chair, and the glass fell out of his hands. If only 
that dream would stop...
  
  Elliott had to stop to catch his breath. The two bulbous eyes stared at him over the 
black serge. It seemed they tried to squint in the sunlight, but the half-eaten lids 
would not fully close. The woman's hand pulled the veil tighter as if she wanted to hide 
herself from his gaze.
  
  Whispering softly in Latin, he begged for patience. The carriage had been unable to get 
very close to the house to which they were going. It was only a few paces more.
  
  He mopped his forehead with his handkerchief. But wait a moment. The hand. The hand 
which was holding the black serge over her mouth. He looked at it again. It was changing 
in the burning sun. The wound exposing the knucklebone had almost closed.
  
  He stared at it for a moment; then he looked at her eyes again. Yes, the eyelids had 
filled in somewhat and long beautiful black lashes were now curving upwards, hiding the 
leprouslike ruin of the flesh.
  
  He put his arm about her again: at once she cleaved to him, a soft and trembling thing. 
A soft sigh escaped her.
  
  He was aware suddenly of a perfume rising from her, a rich, sweet and altogether lovely 
perfume. There was the smell of dust, of mud, actually, of the deep river silt-but that 
was very faint. The perfume was strong and musky. He could feel her warmth coming through 
the black serge.
  
  Dear God, what is this potion! What is it capable of!
  
  "There, there, my dear,"  he said in English." We're very close. That door at the end."
  
  He felt her arm slip around him. With a powerful grip she lifted him slightly, taking 
the pressure off his numb left foot. The pain in his left hip slackened. He gave a little 
laugh of relief. In fact, he almost broke into outright laughter. But he didn't. He 
simply moved on, allowing her to assist him, until he reached the door.
  
  There he rested for a moment, and then he pounded with his right fist.
  
  He could not have gone another step.
  
  There was a long moment in which he heard nothing. He pounded again, and again.
  
  Then came the sound of the bolt sliding, and Henry appeared, squinting, his face 
unshaven, dressed only in a green silk robe.
  
  "What the hell do you want?"
  
  "Let me in."  He pushed the door back and brought the woman with him into the room. 
Desperately she crowded against him, hiding her face.
  
  Dimly, he saw that the place was luxurious-carpets, furniture, decanters gleaming on a 
marble sideboard. Through the archway, a dark-skinned beauty in a satin dancing 
costume-obviously Malenka-had just set down a tray of steaming food. Small orange trees 
</pre>
<!--N=10000 M=10200 pt=-->
crowded against the whitewashed garden wall.
  
  "Who is this woman!"  Henry demanded.
  
  Holding tight to her still, Elliott struggled to the chair. But he could see that Henry 
was staring at the woman's feet. He'd seen the bare bones showing in the instep. A look 
of disgust passed over Henry; of puzzlement.
  
  "Who is she! Why did you bring her here!"
  
  Then convulsively, Henry moved back, slamming into the pillar that divided the archway 
to the courtyard, his head thudding dangerously against the stone." What's wrong with 
her!"  he gasped." Patience, I'll tell you everything,"  Elliott whispered. The pain in 
his chest was so bad now that he could hardly form the words. Easing down in the rattan 
chair, he felt the woman's grip loosen. He heard her make a faint sound. He looked up, 
and realized she had seen the cupboard across the room, the glass bottles gleaming in the 
light from the courtyard.
  
  She went towards the liquid, groaning. The black serge garment fell from her head and 
then from her shoulders, fully revealing the bones of her ribs gleaming through the 
gaping holes
  
  in her back, and the remnants of cloth that barely concealed her nakedness.
  
  "For the love of God, don't panic!"  Elliott shouted.
  
  But it was too late. Henry's face went white, his mouth twisted and shuddering. Behind 
him, in the courtyard, Malenka let out a full-throated scream.
  
  The wounded creature dropped the bottle with a great piteous moan.
  
  Henry's hand rose from his pocket, sun glinting on the barrel of a small silver gun.
  
  "No, Henry!"  Elliott cried. He tried to rise, but he couldn't. The shot exploded with 
the same nerve-shattering volume of the guns in the museum. A parrot screeched in its 
cage.
  
  The wounded woman cried out as she took the bullet in her chest, staggering backwards, 
and then let out a great bellow as she ran at Henry.
  
  The sounds coming from Henry were scarcely human. All reason had left him. He backed 
into the courtyard, firing the gun again and again. Crying in agony, the woman closed on 
him, knocking the gun out of his hand and taking him by the throat. In an ugly waltz they 
struggled, Henry clawing at her desperately, her own bony fingers holding fast to his 
neck. The wicker table went over, china shattering on the tiles. Into the orange trees 
they stumbled, tiny leaves pouring down in a shower.
  
  In terror Malenka crouched against the wall.
  
  "Elliott, help me!"  Henry screamed. He was being bent over backwards, knees buckling 
and hands flailing, catching stupidly in the creature's hair.
  
  Elliott managed somehow to reach the edge of the archway. But only in time to hear the 
bones snap. He winced as he saw Henry's body go limp and tumble softly, in a heap of 
green silk, on the ground.
  
  The creature staggered backwards, whimpering, and then sobbing, her mouth making a 
grimace again, as it had in the museum, teeth bared. The ragged cloth covering her had 
been torn from one shoulder; her dark pink nipples showed through the sheer linen. Great 
gouts of blood hung in the wrappings still clinging to her torso, strips of fabric 
falling from her thighs with each step. Her eyes, bloodshot and running with tears, 
stared at the dead body and then at the spilt food, the hot tea steaming in the sun.
  
  Slowly she went down on her knees. She grabbed up the muffins and stuffed them into her 
mouth. On all fours she lapped the spilt tea. She scraped up the jam with her fingers and 
sucked them frantically. She gnawed on the bacon and then swallowed the rasher whole.
  
  In utter silence, Elliott watched her. He was vaguely conscious of Malenka running 
silently towards him, and then hovering behind him. Deliberately, he took one short 
breath after another, listening at the same time to the hammer trip of his heart.
  
  The creature devoured the butter; the eggs she crushed and scraped with her teeth from 
the shells.
  
  Finally there was no more food. Yet she remained there, on her knees. She was staring 
at her outstretched hands.
  
  The sun beat down on the little courtyard. It gleamed on her dark hair.
  
  In a daze, Elliott continued to watch. He could not absorb what he was seeing or judge 
it. The continuing shock of all he'd witnessed was too great.
  
  Suddenly the creature turned and lay down on the paved ground. She stretched out full 
length, crying as if into a soft pillow, her hand scratching at the hard-baked tiles. 
Then she rolled over on her back into the full sunlight, free of the soft dancing green 
shadows from the small trees.
  
  For a moment she stared up into the burning sky, and then her eyes appeared to roll up 
in her head. Only a half-moon of
  
  pale iris showed.
  
  "Ramses,"  she whispered. Her bosom moved faintly with her breathing. But otherwise she 
lay still.
  
  The Earl turned and reached for Malenka. Leaning heavily on her, he struggled back 
towards the chair. He could feel the dark-skinned woman trembling. He settled down 
silently on the tapestried cushions, and rested his head against the high rounded chair 
back of prickly rattan. This is all a nightmare, he thought. But it was not a nightmare. 
He had seen this creature raised from the dead. He had seen her kill Henry. What in God's 
name was he to do?
  
  Malenka remained at his elbow, then went down slowly on her knees. Her eyes were wide- 
and empty, her mouth agape. She stared towards the garden.
  
  Flies circled over Henry's face. They swooped down on the remnants of the overturned 
meal.
  
  "There, there, nothing will harm you,"  Elliott whispered. The burning in his chest 
subsided very slowly. He felt a dull warmth in his left hand." She won't hurt you. I 
promise you."  He moistened his dry lips with his tongue, then somehow managed to go on." 
She is ill; and I must take care of her. She will not harm you, you understand."
  
  The Egyptian woman clutched at his wrist, her forehead against the arm of the chair. 
After a long moment, she spoke.
  
  "No police,"  she pleaded in a barely audible voice." No English take my house."
  
  "No,"  Elliott murmured." No police. We don't want the police."
  
  He wanted to pat her head, but he could not bring himself to move. He stared dully out 
into the sunlight, at the prone creature, her glossy black hair spread out in the 
sunlight; and at the dead man.
  
  "I take care of ..."  the woman whispered." I take my English away. No police come."
  
  Elliott didn't understand her. What was she saying? Then slowly it dawned on him.
  
  "You can do this?"  he said under his breath.
  
  "Yes, I do this. Friends come. Take English away."
  
  "Yes, all right then."  He sighed and the pain in his chest intensified. Tentatively he 
pushed his right hand into his pocket and brought out his money clip. Barely able to move 
his left fingers, he took out two ten-pound notes.
  
  "For you,"  he said. He closed his eyes again, exhausted by the effort. He felt the 
money taken from his hand." But you must be careful. You must tell no one what you saw."
  
  "I tell no one. I take care of ... This is my house. My brother give."
  
  "Yes, I understand. I shall be here only a little while. That I promise you. I shall 
take the woman with me. But for now, you will be patient, and there'll be more money, 
much more."  Once again he looked at the money clip. He peeled the notes off without 
counting and forced them into her hand.
  
  Then he lay back again, and closed his eyes. He heard her pad softly across the carpet. 
Then her hand touched him again.
  
  When he looked up he saw her draped in black, and she held another folded black robe in 
her hand.
  
  "You cover,"  she whispered. And with her eyes, she gestured to the courtyard.
  
  "I cover,"  he whispered. And closed his eyes again." You cover!"  he heard her say 
desperately. And again he said that he would.
  
  With great relief he heard her go out, and shut the door to the street.
  
  In the long flowing Bedouin robes, Ramses walked through the museum, among the milling 
tourists, peering ahead through the dark glasses at the empty space at the end of the 
corridor where the display case had stood. No sign that it had ever been there! No broken 
glass, no splintered wood. And the vial he had dropped. Gone.
  
  But where could she be! What happened to her! In anguish, he thought of the soldiers 
who'd surrounded him. Had she fallen into their hands?
  
  He walked on, turning the corner, eyes moving over the statues and the sarcophagi. If 
he had known misery like this ever in all these centuries, he could not remember it now. 
He had no right to be walking here with men and women, to be breathing the same air.
  
  He could not think where to go or what to do. If he did not discover something soon, he 
would go completely mad.
  
  Perhaps a quarter of an hour passed, maybe less. Cover her, yes. No, get her out of the 
garden before the men come. She lay in the sun, stuporous, now and then murmuring in her 
sleep.
  
  Gripping his walking stick, he rose to his feet. There was feeling in his left leg 
again, and that meant there was pain.
  
  He went into the bedroom. A high old-fashioned Victorian bed stood against the far 
right wail, its white mosquito netting catching the flood of sunlight from the open 
blinds of the window.
  
  A dressing table stood just to the left of the window. And an armoire stood farther 
away in the left corner, its mirrored doors open, revealing a row of wool jackets and 
coats.
  
  A small portable gramophone with a horn stood on the dressing table. Beside it were a 
set of gramophone records in a cardboard case." Learn English,"  said the bold lettering. 
There was another dance hall record. An ashtray. Several magazines and a half-full bottle 
of Scotch.
  
  He could see a proper bathroom through a far door on the right side of the bed. Copper 
tub there; towels.
  
  He went the other direction, through a door into another chamber which formed the north 
wall of the courtyard, with all its blinds shut. Here the dark beauty kept her tawdry 
dancing costumes and junk jewelry. But one cabinet was bursting with frilly Western 
</pre>
<!--N=10200 M=10400 pt=-->
dresses as well. There were Western shoes, and frilly umbrellas and a couple of 
impossible wide-brimmed hats.
  
  But what good were these clothes when the wounded thing needed to be hidden from prying 
eyes? He found the usual Moslem robes folded neatly on a bottom shelf. So he could give 
her fresh covering-that is, if Malenka would allow him to buy these clothes.
  
  He paused in the doorway to catch his breath. He stared at the regal bed in the 
sunlight, the netting flowing down from a circular tester, much like a crown above. The 
moment seemed trancelike, elastic. Images of Henry's death flashed before his eyes. Yet 
he felt nothing. Nothing-except perhaps for a cold horror that took away the very will to 
live.
  
  Will to live. He had the vial in his pocket. He had a few drops of the precious fluid!
  
  That, too, did not affect him; did not dispel his languor. The maid dead in the museum; 
Henry dead in the courtyard. The thing lying out there in the sun!
  
  He could not reason. Why bother to try? He had to reach Ramses, of that much he was 
certain. But where was Ramses? What had the bullets done to him? Was he being held by the 
men who had dragged him away?
  
  But first, the woman, he had to bring her in and hide her so that Henry's body could be 
taken away.
  
  She might well attack the men who came to get Henry. And one glimpse of her might do 
them even more harm.
  
  Limping out to the courtyard, he tried to clear his head. He and Ramses were not 
enemies. They were confederates now. And perhaps ... But then he had no spirit for such 
dreams and ambitions anymore-only what must be done now.
  
  He took a few cautious steps towards the woman asleep on the tiled patio floor.
  
  The midday sun was burning hot, and suddenly he feared for her because of it. He shaded 
his eyes as he looked at her: for surely he could not be seeing what he thought he saw.
  
  She moaned uneasily; she was suffering-but a woman of great and exceptional beauty lay 
there!
  
  A large patch of white bone gleamed through her raven hair,
  
  true, and a small bit of bare cartilage showed in her jaw. Indeed, her right hand still 
had two fingers which were bones only, blood trickling from the gristle in the joints. 
And the wound in her chest was still there, gaping, revealing a stretch of white rib, 
overlaid with a thin membrane full of tiny red veins.
  
  But the face had assumed its full human contour! High colour bloomed in the beautifully 
moulded cheeks. The mouth was exquisitely shaped and ruddy. And the flesh had over all a 
lovely even olive tone.
  
  Her nipples were a dark rose colour, her breasts plump and firm.
  
  What was happening? Did the elixir take time to work?
  
  Timidly he drew closer. The heat pounded upon him. His head began to swim. Struggling 
once again not to lose consciousness, he groped for the pillar behind him and steadied 
himself, eyes still fixed on the woman who now opened her pale hazel eyes.
  
  She stirred, lifting her right hand and staring at it again. Surely she felt what was 
happening to her. In fact, it seemed the wounds hurt her. Gasping, she touched the 
bleeding edge of open flesh on her hand.
  
  But if she understood that she was actually healing, she gave no sign. She let her arm 
drop limply and once again she closed her eyes. She cried again, softly.
  
  "Ramses,"  she said as if in half sleep.
  
  "Come with me," Elliott spoke to her softly in Latin." Come inside, to a proper bed."
  
  Dully she looked at him.
  
  "The warm sun is there too,"  he said. And no sooner had he said these words than he 
realized. It was the sun that was healing her! He had seen it working on her hand as they 
came through the streets. It was the only part exposed save for her eyes, and they too 
had been healing.
  
  And it had been the sun that waked Ramses. That was the meaning of all the strange 
language on the coffin, that the sun must not be allowed into the tomb.
  
  But there was no time to ponder it or question it. She had sat up; the rags had fallen 
away from her naked breasts completely, and her face, looking up at him, was beautifully 
angular, cheeks softly shadowed, eyes full of cold light.
  
  She gave him her hand, then saw the bony fingers and drew it back with a hiss.
  
  "No, trust in me,"  he said in Latin. He helped her to her feet.
  
  He led her through the little house and into the bedroom. She studied objects around 
her. With her foot, she examined the soft Persian carpet. She stared at the little 
gramophone. What did the black disk look like to her?
  
  He tried to steer her towards the bed, but she would not move. She had seen the 
newspaper lying on the dressing table; and now she snatched it up and stared at the 
advertisement for the opera-at the quaintly Egyptian woman and her warrior lover, and the 
sketch of the three pyramids behind them and the fanlike Egyptian palms.
  
  She gave a little agitated moan as she studied this. Then her finger moved over the 
columns of English, and she looked up at Elliott, her eyes large and glossy and slightly 
mad.
  
  "My language,"  he said to her in Latin." English. This advertises a drama with music. 
It is called an opera."
  
  "Speak in English,"  she said to him in Latin. Her voice was sharp yet lovely." I tell 
you, speak."
  
  There was a sound at the door. He took her arm and moved her to one side, out of 
sight." Strangers,"  he said in English and then immediately in Latin. He went on in this 
vein, alternating languages, translating for her." Lie down and rest, and I shall bring 
you food."
  
  She cocked her head, listening to the noises from the other room. Then her body moved 
with a violent spasm and she put her hand to the wound in her chest. Yes, they hurt her, 
these awful oozing ulcers, for that's what they looked like. But there was something else 
wrong with her, accounting for her sudden jerky movements, and the way every sound 
startled her.
  
  Quickly he led her to the bed, and, shoving back the netting, he urged her to He back 
on the lace pillows. A great look of relief came over her as she did so. She shivered 
violently again, fingers dancing now over her eyes, as she turned instinctively towards 
the sun. Surely he should cover her; only a few rags now clung to her, thin as paper, but 
then she needed the sun.
  
  He opened the blinds opposite, letting the full heat come in.
  
  Then he hurried to close the door to the sitting room, and he peered out the window 
that opened onto the yard.
  
  Malenka was just opening the garden gate. Two men had come in with a rolled-up carpet. 
They unrolled it on the pavement, lifted the body of Henry, dumped it down on the carpet 
and rolled it up again.
  
  The sight of the heavy flopping limbs sickened Elliott. He swallowed, and waited out 
the sudden increased pressure in his chest.
  
  Then he heard a soft weeping coming from the bed. He went back to the woman and looked 
down at her. He could not tell if the healing was continuing. And then he thought of the 
vial in his coat.
  
  For a moment he hesitated. Who would not? But there were only a few droplets. And he 
could not bear the sight of her pain.
  
  The deaths she'd caused; they had been almost blunders. And how impossible to measure 
her confusion and torments.
  
  She looked up at him, squinting as though the brightness hurt her. And softly in Latin, 
she asked his name.
  
  For a moment he couldn't respond. Her simple tone had evinced a natural intelligence. 
And it was intelligence now that he beheld in her eyes.
  
  That is, she seemed no longer mad or disoriented. Only a woman suffering.
  
  "Forgive me,"  he said in Latin." Elliott, Lord Rutherford. In my land, I am a lord."
  
  Shrewdly she studied him. She sat up, and reaching for the folded comforter at the foot 
of the bed, she brought it up to cover her to the waist. The sunlight sparkled on her 
black hair, and once again he saw the tendrils dancing about her face.
  
  Her black eyebrows were beautifully drawn, high and just wide enough apart. Her hazel 
eyes were magnificent.
  
  "May I ask your name?"  he said in Latin.
  
  A bitter smile came over her." Cleopatra,"  she said." In my land, I am a Queen."
  
  The silence shimmered. A soft heat washed through him, utterly unlike the pain of other 
shocks. He stared into her eyes, unable to answer. And then a great exhilaration seized 
him, obliterating every fear and regret of his soul.
  
  "Cleopatra,"  he whispered, awestruck, respectful.
  
  In Latin she said," Speak to me in English, Lord Rutherford. Speak the tongue you spoke 
to the slave girl. Speak the tongue written there in the book. Bring me food and drink, 
for I am ravenous."
  
  "Yes,"  he said in English, nodding to her. He repeated the assent in Latin." Food and 
drink."
  
  "And you must tell me-" she started, but then stopped. The pain in her side hurt her, 
and then frantically she touched the wound on her head." Tell me-" she tried again, then 
looked at him in pure confusion. She was obviously struggling to remember; then panic 
seized her, and clamping her hands to her head, she closed her eyes and started to weep.
  
  "Here, wait, I have the medicine,"  he whispered. He eased himself down slowly on the 
side of the bed. He drew the vial out of his coat. A half inch of fluid remained in it, 
sparkling unnaturally in the sun.
  
  She studied the vial suspiciously. She watched him open it. He raised it, gendy 
touching her hair with his left hand; but she stopped him. She pointed to her eyelids and 
he saw that there were still small places there where the skin appeared eaten away. She 
took the vial from him, poured a drop or two onto her fingers and smoothed this on her 
lids.
  
  Elliott narrowed his eyes as he watched the action of the chemical. He could almost 
hear it, a faint rustling, crackling sound.
  
  Now, desperately, she took the whole vial and poured the fluid over the gaping hole in 
her chest. She smeared it with her left fingers, whimpering softly, and then lay back, 
</pre>
<!--N=10400 M=10600 pt=-->
gasping faindy, head tossing on the pillows, then still.
  
  Several minutes passed. He was fascinated by what he saw. But the healing went only so 
far, then stopped. Her lids, they were now entirely normal, and indeed her lashes were a 
dark unbroken fringe. But the wound in her side was as evil as ever.
  
  It was only just penetrating to him that she was Cleopatra, that Ramses had stumbled 
upon the body of his lost love. It was only just coming clear to him why Ramses had done 
what he had done. Dully he wondered what it meant to have such power. He had dreamed of 
immortality, but not the power to convey it. And this was the power not only to grant 
immortality, but to triumph over death.
  
  But the implications ... they staggered him. This creature, what was going on in her 
mind? Indeed, where had her mind as such come from? God, he had to reach Ramsey!
  
  "I'll get more of the medicine,"  he said in English, translating it immediately into 
Latin." I'll bring it here to you, but you must rest now. You must lie here in die sun."  
He pointed to the window. Using both languages, he explained that the sun was making the 
medicine work.
  
  Drowsily she looked at him. She repeated his English phrases, mimicking his accent 
perfectly. But her eyes had a glazed and utterly mad look now. She murmured something in 
Latin about not being able to remember and then she began to weep again.
  
  He could not bear the sight of it. But what more could he do? As quickly as he could, 
he went into the other room and brought back a bottle of liqueur for her, a thick spicy 
brandy, and at once she took it from him and drank it down.
  
  Her eyes went dim for a moment. And then she moaned aloud in pure distress again.
  
  The gramophone. Ramsey loved music. Ramsey was spellbound by it. Elliott went to the 
little machine, and examined the few records beside it in a pile. Lots of the 
English-language foolishness. Ah, here was what he wanted: Aida. Caruso singing Radames.
  
  He wound the box, and set the needle on the record. At the first thin sound of the 
orchestra, she sat up in the bed; she stared in horror. But he went to her and touched 
her shoulder gently.
  
  "Opera, Aida,"  he said. He groped for words in Latin to explain it was a music box; it 
worked by parts fitted together." The song was from a man to his Egyptian love."
  
  She climbed out of the bed and stumbled past him. She was now almost entirely naked, 
and her form was quite beautiful, her hips narrow and her legs beautifully proportioned. 
He tried not to stare at her; not to stare at her breasts. Approaching slowly, he lifted 
the gramophone needle. She screamed at him. A volley of curses broke from her in Latin." 
Make the music go on."
  
  "Yes, but I want to show you how,"  he told her. He cranked the handle of the machine 
again. He set the needle on the record again. Only then did the utter savagery go out of 
her expression. She began to moan in time with the music, and then she put her hands on 
her head, and shut her eyes very tight.
  
  She began to dance, rocking frantically from side to side. It terrified him to watch 
her, but he knew he'd seen this very kind of dancing before. He had seen it among 
severely damaged children-an atavistic response to the rhythm and sound.
  
  She didn't notice as he slipped away to bring her food.
  
  Ramses bought the newspaper from the British newsstand and walked on, slowly, through 
the crowded bazaar.
  
  MURDER IN THE MUSEUM MUMMY STOLEN; MAID KILLED
  
  Beneath the headline was the column heading:
  
  MYSTERIOUS EGYPTIAN SOUGHT IN GRISLY DEATH
  
  He scanned the details, then crumpled up the newspaper and threw it away. He walked on 
with his head bowed, arms folded under the Arab robe. Had she slain this serving woman? 
And why had she done it? 'And how had she managed to escape?
  
  Of course the officials might be lying, but that seemed unlikely. Not enough time had 
elapsed for such cleverness. And she had had the opportunity, for die guards had been 
busy taking him away.
  
  He tried to see again what he had seen in that shadowy hallway-the horrid monstrosity 
which he had resurrected from the case. He saw the thing trudging towards him; he heard 
the hoarse, almost gurgling voice. He saw the attitude of suffering stamped on the 
half-eaten-away face!
  
  What was he to do? This morning for the first time since he had been a mortal man, he 
had thought of his gods. In the museum as he had stood over her remains, ancient chants 
had come back to him; ancient words he'd spoken before the populace and in the darkened 
temple surrounded by priests.
  
  And now in the hot teeming street, he found himself whispering under his breath old 
prayers again.
  
  Julie sat on the small white chintz sofa in the sitting room of her cluttered hotel 
suite. She was glad that Alex was holding her hand. Samir stood quietly beside the only 
empty chair. Two British officials sat opposite. Miles Winthrop, standing near the door, 
hands clasped behind his back, looked miserable. The elder of the two officials, a man 
named Peterson, held a telegram in his hand.
  
  "But you see, Miss Stratford,"  he said with a condescending smile," with a death in 
London and now a death here in Cairo ..."
  
  "How do you know they are connected?"  Samir asked." This man in London. You say he was 
a maker of illegal loans!"
  
  "Ah, Tommy Sharpies, yes, that was his profession."
  
  "Well, what would Mr. Ramsey have to do with him?"  Julie asked. How remarkable that I 
sound so calm, she thought, when I am going mad inside.
  
  "Miss Stratford, the Cleopatra coin found in the dead man's pocket connects these 
murders. Surely it came from your collection. It is identical with the five coins 
cataloged."
  
  "But it is not one of the five coins. You've told me that."
  
  "Yes, but you see, we found several others, here at Shepheard's."
  
  "I don't follow you."
  
  "In Mr. Ramsey's room."
  
  Silence. Samir cleared his throat." You searched his room?"
  
  It was Miles who answered:
  
  "Julie, I know this is a very dear friend of yours, and the whole situation is painful. 
But you see, these killings-they're extraordinarily vicious. And you must tell us 
anything that can help us to apprehend this man."
  
  "He did not kill anyone in London!"
  
  Miles went on as if he hadn't heard this outburst, with maddening civility.
  
  "Now, the Earl, we must talk to the Earl also, and at the moment we can't find him."  
He looked to Alex.
  
  "I don't know where my father is,"  Alex said helplessly.
  
  "And Henry Stratford, where can we find him?"
  
  The two Egyptians hurried through the narrow streets of old Cairo, with the blanket 
over their shoulders, the bulging body quite a weight in the noon heat.
  
  But it was well worth the sweat and time taken, for the body would bring them plenty. 
As the winter months approached, tourists would descend in droves upon Egypt. They had 
found a good and handsome corpse just in time.
  
  Finally they reached Zaki's house, or" the factory,"  as it was known to them in their 
own tongue. Through the courtyard gate they entered, hurrying with their trophy into the 
first of a series of dimly lighted rooms. They had taken no notice of the mummies propped 
against the stone wall as they passed, or of the numerous dark, leathery bodies on tables 
in the room.
  
  Only the stench of the chemicals bothered them. And they waited impatiently for Zaki to 
come.
  
  "Good body,"  said one of the men to the workman who stirred a giant pot of bitumen in 
the centre of the room. A great
  
  bed of coals beneath it kept it bubbling, and it was from this pot that the foul smell 
came.
  
  "Good bones?"  asked the man.
  
  "Ah, yes, beautiful English bones."
  
  The disguise was a good one. Thousands of such Bedouins roamed Cairo. He might as well 
have been invisible, that is, when he took off the sunglasses which did occasionally bring
  
  stares.
  
  He pocketed them now beneath the striped robe as he entered the rear yard of 
Shepheard's Hotel. The brown-skinned Egyptian boys, lathering a motor car, did not even 
look up from their labor as he passed.
  
  Moving along the wall, behind the fruit trees, he approached a small nondescript door. 
An uncarpeted rear stairs lay within. Mops, brooms, a wash pail in the alcove.
  
  He took the broom and made his way slowly up the stairs. He dreaded the inevitable 
moment when Julie would ask what he had done.
  
  She sat on the side of the bed, eating from the tray he'd put before her on the small 
wicker table from the yard. She wore a thin chemise now, the only undergarment he'd found 
in Malenka's closet. He had helped her put it on.
  
  Malenka had prepared the food for him-fruit, bread, cheese and wine-but she would not 
come near the room.
  
  The creature's appetite was fierce and she ate almost savagely. The bottles of wine 
she'd drunk as if they were water. And though she had remained in the sun steadily, no 
more healing had taken place, of that he was fairly sure.
  
  As for Malenka, she remained shivering in the front room. How long he could control 
her, Elliott was unsure.
  
  He slipped away now and went in search of her. He found her crouched, her arms folded, 
against the far wall.
  
  "Don't be frightened, dear,"  he said to her.
  
  "My poor English,"  she said in a whisper.
  
  "I know, my dear, I know."  But that's just it, he didn't know. He sat down in the 
peacock chair again, and took out a few more bills. He gestured to her to come and take 
</pre>
<!--N=10600 M=10800 pt=-->
them. But she merely stared at him, dull-eyed, shivering, and then turned her head to the 
wall.
  
  "My poor English,"  she said," is in the boiling vat by now."
  
  Had he heard her properly?
  
  "What vat?"  he asked her." What are you saying?"
  
  "They make a great Pharaoh of my English. My beautiful English. They put him in the 
bitumen; they make a mummy of him for tourists to buy."
  
  He was too shocked to answer her. He looked away, unable to form the simplest words.
  
  "My beautiful English, they wrap him in linen; they make him a King."
  
  He wanted to say, Stop, he could hear no more. But he only sat there in silence until 
suddenly the sound of the gramophone startled him-the sound of a pinched voice speaking 
English grinding out from the other room. The English records. She had found them. He 
trusted that they would content her, that they would give him this little time to rest.
  
  But there came a great shattering crash. The mirror. She had broken it.
  
  He rose and hurried towards her; she stood rocking back and forth on the carpet, the 
broken glass all over the dressing table, all over the floor around her, the gramophone 
droning on.
  
  "Regina,"  he said." Bella Regina Cleopatra."
  
  "Lord Rutherford,"  she cried." What has happened to me! What is this place?"  A long 
string of words in a strange tongue she spoke rapidly, and then the words gave out 
altogether into hoarse hysterical cries breaking one after another, and finally forming 
one great roaring sob.
  
  Zaki inspected the operation. He watched them sink the naked body of the Englishman 
deep into the thick, viscous green fluid. On occasion, he would embalm these bodies; he 
would carry the replication of the original process to the extreme. But that was no 
longer necessary. The English weren't so keen anymore to unwrapping them at their parties 
in London. It was only necessary to have them thoroughly soaked in bitumen, and then the 
wrappings could be applied.
  
  He approached the vat; he studied the face of the Englishman floating below the 
surface. Good bones, that was true. That's what the tourists like-to see a real face 
beneath the linen. And this one would look very good indeed.
  
  A soft knock on her door.
  
  "I don't want to see anyone,"  Julie said. She sat on the couch
  
  in the sitting room of her suite, beside Samir, who had been holding her as she cried.
  
  She could not understand what had happened. There was no doubt Ramses had been in the 
museum, that he had been badly wounded, and that he had escaped. But the murder of the 
maid, she could not believe he would do such a thing.
  
  "The theft of the mummy, this I understand,"  she had told Samir only moments before." 
He knew that woman; he knew who she was. He could not bear to see the body desecrated any 
longer, and so he sought to remove her."
  
  "But none of the pieces fit together,"  Samir said." If he was taken prisoner, who then 
removed the mummy?"  He paused as Rita answered the door.
  
  Julie turned, caught a glimpse of a tall Arab standing there, in full flowing robes. 
She was about to turn away when she saw a flash of blue eyes.
  
  It was Ramses. He pushed his way past Rita and shut the door. At once she rushed into 
his arms.
  
  She did not know what her doubts had been, or her fears. She held him, burying her face 
in his neck. She felt his lips graze her forehead, and then his embrace tightened. He 
