  Julie had laughed softly to herself." The British Museum is full of dead bodies, Rita."
  
  If only the dead could come back. If only the ghost of her father would come to her. 
Imagine such a miracle. Having him again, speaking to him, hearing his voice. What 
happened, Father? Did you suffer? Was there even one second when you were afraid?
  
  Yes, she wouldn't have minded such a visitation at all. But no such thing would ever 
happen. That was the horror. We went from the cradle to the grave beset by mundane 
tragedies. The splendour of the supernatural was a thing for stories and poems, and 
Shakespeare's plays.
  
  But why dwell on it? Now had come the moment to be alone with her father's treasures, 
and to read the last words he wrote.
  
  She turned the pages now to the date of the discovery. And the first words she saw made 
her eyes fill with tears.
  
  Must write to Julie, describe everything. Hieroglyphs on the door virtually free of 
error; must have been written by one who knew what he was writing. Yet the Greek is 
entirely of the Ptolemaic period. And the Latin is sophisticated. Impossible, Yet there 
it is. Samir uncommonly fearful and superstitious. Must sleep for a few hours. Am going 
in tonight!
  
  There was a hasty ink sketch of the door of the tomb and its three broad paragraphs of 
writing. Hastily she turned to the next page.
  
  Nine P.M. by my watch. Inside the chamber at last. Appears to be a library rather than 
a tomb. The man has been laid to rest in a King's coffin beside a desk on which he has 
left some thirteen scrolls. He writes entirely in Latin, with obvious haste but no 
carelessness. There are droplets of ink all over, but the text is completely coherent.
  
  "Call me Ramses the Damned. For that is the name I have given myself. But I was once 
Ramses the Great of Upper and Lower Egypt, slayer of the Hittites, Father of many sons 
and daughters, who ruled Egypt for sixty-four years. My monuments are still standing; the 
stele recount my victories, though a thousand years have passed since I was pulled, a 
mortal child, from the womb.
  
  "Ah, fatal moment now buried by time, when from a Hittite priestess I took the cursed 
elixir. Her warnings I would not heed. Immortality I craved. And so I drank the potion in 
the brimming cup. And now, long centuries gone by-amid the poisons of my lost Queen, I 
hide the potion which she would not accept from me-my doomed Cleopatra."
  
  Julie stopped. The elixir, hidden amongst these poisons? She realized what Samir had 
meant. The papers had not told that part of the little mystery. Tantalizing. These 
poisons hide a formula that can grant eternal life.
  
  "But who would create such a fiction!"  she whispered.
  
  She found herself staring at the marble bust of Cleopatra. Immortality. Why would 
Cleopatra not drink the potion? Oh, but really, she was beginning to believe it! She 
smiled.
  
  She turned the page of the diary. The translation was interrupted. Her father had 
written only:
  
  Goes on to describe how Cleopatra awakened him from his dream-filled sleep, how he 
tutored her, loved her, watched her seduce the Roman leaders one by one...
  
  "Yes,"  Julie whispered." Julius Caesar first and then Mark Antony. But why would she 
not take the elixir?"  There was another paragraph of translation:
  
  "How can I bear this burden any longer? How can I endure the loneliness anymore? Yet I 
can not die. Her poisons can not harm me. They keep my elixir safe so that I may dream of 
still other Queens, both fair and wise, to share the centuries with me. But is it not her 
face I see? Her voice I hear? Cleopatra. Yesterday. Tomorrow. Cleopatra."
  
  Latin followed. Several scribbled paragraphs in Latin which Julie could not read. Even 
with the aid of a dictionary she could not have translated it. Then there were a few 
lines of demotic Egyptian, even more nearly impenetrable than that Latin. Nothing more.
  
  She laid down the book. She fought the inevitable tears. It was almost as if she could 
feel the presence of her father in this room. How excited he must have been, what a 
lovely scribble his handwriting had become.
  
  And how lovely the whole mystery was.
  
  Somewhere among all those poisons, an elixir that conveyed immortality? One need not 
take it literally to find it beautiful.
  
  And behold that tiny silver burner and the delicate vial. Ramses the Damned had 
believed it. Perhaps her father had believed it. And for the moment, well, maybe she did 
too.
  
  She rose slowly and approached the long marble table against the opposite wall. The 
scrolls were too fragile. There were tiny bits and pieces of papyrus scattered 
everywhere. She had seen this damage done as die men lifted them ever so carefully from 
their crates. She dared not touch them. Besides, she couldn't read them.
  
  As for the jars, she mustn't touch them either. What if some of that poison were 
spilled, or somehow released into the air?
  
  She found herself suddenly looking at her own reflection in the mirror on the wall. She 
went back to the desk, and opened the folded newspaper that lay there.
  
  Shakespeare's Antony and Cleopatra was enjoying a long run in London. She and Alex had 
meant to go and see it, but then Alex fell asleep during serious plays. Only Gilbert and 
Sullivan entertained Alex. and even then he was usually nodding off by the end of the 
third act.
  
  She studied the little announcement for the performance. She stood up and reached for 
Plutarch on the bookshelf above the desk.
  
  Where was the story of Cleopatra? Plutarch had not devoted a full biography to her. No, 
her story was contained in that of Mark Antony, of course.
  
  She paged quickly to the passages she only dimly remembered. Cleopatra had been a great 
Queen, and what we call now a great politician. She had not only seduced Caesar and 
Antony, she kept Egypt free of Roman conquest for decades, finally taking her own life 
when Antony was dead by his own hand, and Octavius Caesar had stormed her gates. The loss 
of Egypt to Rome had been inevitable, but she had almost turned the tide. Had Julius 
Caesar not been assassinated, he might have made Cleopatra his Empress. Had Mark Antony 
been a little stronger, Octavian might have been overthrown.
  
  Even in her final days, however, Cleopatra had been victorious in her own way. Octavian 
wanted to take her to Rome as a royal prisoner. She had cheated him. She had tried out 
dozens of poisons on condemned prisoners, and then chosen the bite of a snake to end her 
life. The Roman guards had not prevented her suicide. And so Octavian took possession of 
Egypt. But Cleopatra he could not have. Julie closed the book almost reverently. She 
looked at the long row of alabaster jars. Could these really be those very poisons?
  
  She fell into a strange reverie as she gazed at the magnificent coffin. A hundred like 
it she had seen here and in Cairo. A hundred like it she had examined ever since she 
could remember. Only this one contained a man who claimed to be immortal. Who claimed to 
be entering not death when he was buried, but" a dream-filled sleep."
  
  What was the secret of that slumber? Of being awakened from it? And the elixir!
  
  "Ramses the Damned,"  she whispered." Would you wake for me as you did for Cleopatra? 
Would you wake for a new century of indescribable marvels even though your Queen is dead?"
  
  No answer but silence; and the large soft eyes of the golden King staring at her, 
graven hands folded over his chest.
  
  "That's robbery!"  Henry said, barely able to contain his anger." The thing's 
priceless."  He glared at the little man behind the desk in the back office of the coin 
shop. Miserable little thief in his stuffy world of dirty glass cases and bits and pieces 
of money displayed as if they were jewels.
  
  "If it's genuine, yes,"  the man answered slowly." And if it's genuine, where did it 
come from? A coin like this with a perfect image of Cleopatra? That's what they will want 
to know, you see, where did it come from? And you have not told me your name."
  
  "No, I haven't."  Exasperated, he snatched the coin back from the dealer, slipped it 
into his pocket and turned to go. He stopped long enough to put on his gloves. What did 
he have left? Fifty pounds? He was in a fury. He let the door slam behind him as he 
walked into the biting wind.
  
  The dealer sat quite still for a long moment. He could still feel the coin that he had 
let slip literally from his hand. Never in all these long years had he seen anything 
quite like it. He knew it was genuine, and suddenly he felt the fool as never before in 
his life.
  
  He should have bought it! He should have taken the risk. But he knew it was stolen, and 
not even for the Queen of the Nile could he become a thief.
  
  
  
  He rose from the desk, and passed through the dusty serge curtains that separated his 
shop from a tiny drawing room where he spent much of his time, even during business 
</pre>
<!--N=1800 M=2000 pt=-->
hours, quite alone. His newspaper lay beside the wing chair where he'd left it. He opened 
now to the headline:
  
  STRATFORD MUMMY AND HIS CURSE COME TO LONDON
  
  The ink drawing beneath showed a slender young man disembarking from the P&O H.M.S. 
Melpomine along with the mummy of the famed Ramses the Damned. Henry Stratford, nephew of 
the dead archaeologist, said the caption. Yes, that was the man who had just left his 
shop. Had he stolen the coin from the tomb where his uncle died so suddenly? And how many 
more like it had he taken? The dealer was confused; relieved on the one hand, and full of 
regret on the other. He stared at the telephone.
  
  Noon. The club dining room was quiet, the few scattered members eating their lunch 
alone on white-draped tables in silence. Just the way Randolph liked it, a true retreat 
from the noisy streets outside, and the endless pressure and confusion of his office.
  
  He was not happy when he saw his son standing in the door some fifty feet away. Hasn't 
slept all night, more than likely. Yet Henry was shaven, neatly dressed, Randolph gave 
him that much. The little things were never out of Henry's control. It was the great 
disaster with which he couldn't cope-that he had no real life any longer. That he was a 
gambler and a drinker with no soul.
  
  Randolph went back to his soup.
  
  He didn't look up as his son took the chair opposite, and called to the waiter for a 
Scotch and water" at once."
  
  "I told you to stay at your cousin's last night,"  Randolph said gloomily. There was no 
point to this conversation." I left the key for you."
  
  "I picked up the key, thank you. And my cousin is no doubt doing quite well without me. 
She has her mummy to keep her company."
  
  The waiter set down the glass and Henry drained it at once.
  
  Randolph took another slow spoon of the hot soup." Why the hell do you dine in a place 
like this? It's been out of fashion for a decade. It's positively funereal."
  
  "Keep your voice down."
  
  "Why should I? All the members are deaf."
  
  Randolph sat back in the chair. He gave a small nod to the waiter, who moved in to take 
the soup plate." It's my club and I like it,"  he said dully. Meaningless. All 
conversation with his son was meaningless. He would weep if he thought of it. He would 
weep if he lingered too long on the fact that Henry's hands trembled, that his face was 
pale and drawn, and that his eyes fixed on nothing-eyes of an addict, a drunk.
  
  "Bring the bottle,"  Henry said to the waiter, without looking up. And to his father," 
I'm down to twenty pounds." 

  
  "I can't advance you anything!"  Randolph said wearily." As long as she's in control, 
the situation is very simply desperate. You don't understand."
  
  "You're lying to me. I know she signed papers yesterday. ..."
  
  "You've drawn a year's salary in advance."
  
  "Father, I must have another hundred. ..."
  
  "If she examines the books herself, I may have to confess everything; and ask for 
another chance."
  
  It filled him with surprising relief merely to say it. Perhaps it was what he wanted. 
He gazed at his son from a great remove suddenly. Yes, he should tell his niece 
everything, and ask for her . , . what? Her help.
  
  Henry was sneering.
  
  "Throwing ourselves on her mercy. Oh, that's lovely."
  
  Randolph looked away, across the long vista of white-draped tables. Only one stooped 
grey-haired figure remained now, dining alone, in a far corner. The elderly Viscount 
Stephenson- one of the old landed gentry who still had the bank account to support his 
vast estates. Well, dine in peace, my friend, Randolph thought wearily.
  
  "What else can we do!"  he said softly now to his son." You might come to work 
tomorrow. At least make an appearance. ..."
  
  Was his son listening, his son who had been miserable for as long as Randolph could 
remember, his son who had no future, no ambitions, no plans, no dreams?
  
  It broke his heart suddenly, the thought of it-the long years since his son had been 
anything but desperate, and furtive, and
  
  bitter as well. It broke his heart to see his son's eyes darting anxiously over the 
simple objects of the table-the heavy silver, the napkin which he had not yet unfolded. 
The glass and the bottle of Scotch.
  
  "All right, I'll give you some on account,"  he said. What would another hundred pounds 
matter? And this was his only son. His only son.
  
  A sombre yet undeniably exciting occasion. When Elliott arrived, the Stratford house 
was crowded to overflowing. He had always loved this house, with its uncommonly large 
rooms, and its dramatic central stairway.
  
  So much dark wood, so many towering bookshelves; and yet it had a cheerful atmosphere 
with the wicked abundance of electric light and the never-ending stretches of gilded 
wallpaper. But he missed Lawrence sharply as he stood in the front hall. He felt Lawrence 
here; and all the wasted moments of their friendship came back to torment him. And the 
long-ago love affair that haunted him still.
  
  Well, he had known it would happen. But there was nowhere else on earth that he wanted 
to be tonight, except in Lawrence's house for the first official showing of Ramses the 
Damned, Lawrence's discovery. He made a light dismissive gesture to fend off those who 
immediately came towards him, and bowing his head he pushed his way gently through 
strangers and old friends until he reached the Egyptian room. The pain in his legs was 
bad tonight, because of the damp, as he always said. But luckily he wouldn't have to 
stand long. And he had a new walking stick that he rather liked, a fancy affair with a 
silver handle.
  
  "Thank you, Oscar,"  he said with the usual smile as he took his first glass of white 
wine.
  
  "Not a moment too soon, old boy,"  Randolph said to him wearily." They're going to 
unveil the ghastly thing now. Might as well come along."
  
  Elliot nodded. Randolph looked dreadful, no doubt about it. He'd had the wind knocked 
out of him by Lawrence's death. But he was doing his best here, it was obvious.
  
  They moved together into the front ranks-and for the first time, Elliott laid eyes upon 
the startlingly beautiful coffin of the mummy.'
  
  The innocent, childlike expression of the golden mask charmed him. Then his eyes moved 
to the bands of writing that girded the lower portion of the figure. Latin and Greek 
words written as if they were Egyptian hieroglyphs!
  
  But he was distracted as Hancock of the British Museum called for quiet, tapping a 
spoon loudly on a crystal glass. Beside Hancock stood Alex, with his arm around Julie, 
who looked exquisite in her black mourning, her hair drawn severely back from her pale 
face, revealing to all the world that her features had never needed fancy coifs or other 
adornments.
  
  As their eyes met, Elliott gave Julie a little melancholy smile, and saw the immediate 
brightening in her that always greeted him. In a way, he thought, she is more fond of me 
than of my son. What an irony. But then his son was staring at these proceedings as if he 
were utterly lost. And perhaps he was, and that was the problem.
  
  Samir Ibrahaim appeared suddenly at Hancock's left. Another old friend. But he did not 
see Elliott. A bit anxiously, he directed two young men to take hold of the lid of the 
mummy case and wait for his instructions. They stood with eyes downcast as if faintly 
embarrassed by the act they were about to perform. And the room went dead silent.
  
  "Ladies and gentlemen,"  Samir said. The two young fellows at once hoisted the lid and 
moved it gracefully to one side." I give you Ramses the Great."
  
  The mummy lay exposed for all to see; the tall figure of a man with arms crossed on his 
breast, seemingly bald and naked under its thick discoloured wrappings.
  
  A collective gasp rose from the crowd. In the golden light of the electric chandeliers 
and the few scattered candelabra, the form was faintly horrible as they always are. Death 
preserved and mounted.
  
  There was an uneasy sprinkling of applause. Shudders, even uneasy laughter; and then 
the thick bank of spectators broke up, some drawing in for a closer look, then backing 
off as if from the heat of a fire, others turning their backs on the thing altogether.
  
  Randolph sighed and shook his head.
  
  "Died for this, did he? I wish I understood why."
  
  "Don't be morbid,"  said the man next to him, someone Elliott ought to remember, but 
didn't." Lawrence was happy-"
  
  "Doing what he wanted to do,"  Elliott whispered. If he heard it said even one more 
time, he would weep.
  
  Lawrence would have been happy examining his treasure.
  
  Lawrence would have been happy translating those scrolls. Lawrence's death was a 
tragedy. Anyone who tried to make anything else out of it was a perfect fool.
  
  Elliott gave Randolph's arm a gentle squeeze and left him, moving slowly towards the 
venerable corpse of Ramses.
  
  It seemed the younger generation had decided en masse to block his progress as they 
surrounded Alex and Julie. Elliott could hear her voice in snatches as conversation 
regained its spirited volume all around.
  
  "... a remarkable story in the papyri,"  Julie explained." But Father had only begun 
his translation. I should like to know what you think, Elliott."
  
  "What was that, my dear?"  He had just reached the mummy itself and he was staring at 
the face, marvelling at how easily one could discern an expression under so many layers 
of decomposing cloth. He took her hand now as she moved close to him. Others pressed in, 
trying to get a good look, but Elliott stood his ground rather selfishly.
  
  "Your opinion, Elliott, of the whole mystery,"  Julie said." Is this a 
nineteenth-dynasty coffin? How did it come to be fashioned in Roman times? You know, 
Father told me once, you knew more about Egyptology than all the men at the museum."
  
  He laughed softly to himself. She glanced about nervously to make sure Hancock was 
nowhere near. Thank God, he was in the thick of his own little crowd, explaining 
something about those scrolls, no doubt, and the row of exquisite jars along the wall 
beneath the mirror.
  
  "What do you think?"  Julie prodded again. Had seriousness ever been so seductive?
  
  "Can't possibly be Ramses the Great, my dear,"  he said." But then you know that."  He 
</pre>
<!--N=2000 M=2200 pt=-->
studied the painted lid of the coffin again, and once more the body nestled in its dusty 
swathing." An excellent job, I must say that. Not many chemicals were used; no smell of 
bitumen whatsoever."
  
  "There is no bitumen,"  Samir said suddenly. He had been standing on Elliot's left and 
Elliott had not even seen him,
  
  "And what do you make of that?"  Elliott asked.
  
  "The King has given us his own explanation,"  Samir said.
  
  "Or so Lawrence told me. Ramses had himself wrapped with all due ceremony and prayers; 
but he was not embalmed. He was never taken from the cell where he wrote his story."
  
  "What an amazing idea!"  Elliott said." And have you read these inscriptions yourself?" 
 He pointed to the Latin as he translated:"  'Let not the sun shine on my remains; for in 
darkness I sleep; beyond all suffering; beyond all knowledge...' Now that is hardly an 
Egyptian sentiment. I think you'll agree."
  
  Samir's face darkened as he looked at the tiny letters." There are curses and warnings 
everywhere. I was a curious man until we opened this strange tomb."
  
  "And now you're frightened?"  Not a good thing for one man to say to another. But it 
was true. And Julie was merely enthralled.
  
  "Elliott, I want you to read Father's notes,"  she said," before the museum gathers up 
everything and locks it in a vault. The man doesn't merely claim to be Ramses. There's a 
good deal more."
  
  "You're not referring to the nonsense in the papers,"  he asked her." About his being 
immortal, and loving Cleopatra."
  
  Strange the way she looked at him." Father translated some of it,"  she repeated. She 
glanced to the side." I have the notebook. It's on his desk. Samir will agree with me, 1 
think. You'll find it interesting."
  
  But Samir was being dragged away by Hancock and some other fellow with a brittle smile. 
And Lady Treadwell had accosted Julie before she could go on. Wasn't Julie afraid of the 
curse? Elliott felt her hand slip away from his. Old Winslow Baker wanted to talk to 
Elliott right now. No, go away. A tall woman with withered cheeks and long white hands 
stood before the coffin and demanded to know if the whole thing might be a practical joke.
  
  "Certainly not!"  said Baker." Lawrence always dug up the real thing, I 'd stake my 
life on it."
  
  Elliott smiled." Once the museum has these wrappings off,"  he said," they'll be able 
to date the remains successfully. There will be internal evidence of age, of course." 

  "Lord Rutherford, I didn't recognize you,"  said the woman.
  
  Good Lord, was he supposed to recognize her? Someone had stepped in front of her; 
everyone wanted to see this thing. And he ought to move, but he didn't want to.
  
  "I can't bear to think of their cutting him open,"  Julie said half in a whisper." This 
is the first time I've seen him,"  she said." I didn't dare to open the case on my own."
  
  "Come along, darling, there's an old friend I want you to
  
  meet,"  Alex said suddenly." Father, there you are! Do get off your feet! Do you want 
me to help you to a chair?"
  
  "I can manage, Alex, go on,"  Elliott replied. The fact was, he was used to the pain. 
It was like tiny knives in his joints; and tonight he could feel it even in his fingers. 
But he could forget about it, entirely, now and then.
  
  And now he was alone with Ramses the Damned, with a lot of backs and shoulders turned 
to him. How splendid.
  
  He narrowed his eyes as he drew very close to the mummy's face. Amazingly well formed; 
not desiccated at all. And certainly not the face of an old man, such as Ramses would 
have been at the end of a sixty-year reign.
  
  The mouth was a young man's mouth, or at least that of a man in his prime. And the nose 
was slender, but not emaciated-what Englishmen call aristocratic. The ridges of the brows 
were prominent and the eyes themselves could not have been small. Probably a handsome 
man. In fact, there seemed little doubt of it.
  
  Someone said crossly that the thing ought to be in the museum. Another that it was 
perfectly gruesome. And to think, these had been Lawrence's friends? Hancock was 
examining the gold coins on display in their velvet-lined case. Samir was beside him.
  
  In fact, Hancock was making a fuss about something, wasn't he? Elliott knew that 
officious tone.
  
  "There were five, only five? You're sure of it?"  And he was speaking so loudly one 
would have thought Samir was deaf, not merely Egyptian.
  
  "Quite sure. I told you,"  Samir said with a touch of irritation." I cataloged the 
entire contents of the chamber myself."
  
  Quite unmistakably, Hancock shifted his gaze to someone across the room. Elliott saw it 
was Henry Stratford, looking quite splendid in his dove-grey wool, with a black silk tie 
at his throat. Laughing and talking nervously, too, it seemed, with Alex and Julie and 
that crowd of young people whom Henry secretly loathed and resented.
  
  Handsome as ever, Elliott thought. Handsome as when he was a boy of twenty, and that 
narrow elegant face could flash from a beguiling vulnerability to a chilling viciousness.
  
  But why was Hancock staring at him? And what was he whispering now in Samir's ear? 
Samir looked at Hancock for a long moment, then gave a languid little shrug, his eyes 
moving slowly over Henry also.
  
  How Samir must loathe all this, Elliott thought. How he must loathe that uncomfortable 
Western suit; he wants his gellebiyya of watered silk, and his slippers, and he should 
have them. What barbarians we must seem.
  
  Elliott moved to the far corner and slipped into Lawrence's leather chair, easing it 
back against the wall. The crowd opened and closed at random, revealing Henry again 
moving away from the others, and glancing uncomfortably to right and left. Very subtle, 
not like a stage villain, but he's up to something, isn't he?
  
  Henry slowly passed the marble table, his hand hovering as if he meant to touch the 
ancient scrolls. The crowd closed again, but Elliott merely waited. The little knot of 
persons in front of him shifted finally, and there was Henry, yards away, peering at a 
necklace on a little glass shelf, one of those many relics which Lawrence had brought 
home years ago.
  
  Did anyone see Henry pick up the necklace and look at it lovingly as if he were an 
antiquarian? Did anyone see him slip it into his pocket and walk away, face blank, mouth 
rigid?
  
  Bastard.
  
  Elliott only smiled. He took a sip of the chilled white wine, and wished it were 
sherry. He wished he had not seen the lithe theft. He wished he had not seen Henry.
  
  His own secret memories of Henry had never lost their painful edge, perhaps because he 
had never confessed what had happened to anyone. Not even to Edith, though he had told 
her many other sordid things about himself when wine and philosophy had made it seem 
imperative that he do so; and not to the Roman Catholic priests to whom he occasionally 
went to speak of heaven and hell in passionate ways no one else would tolerate.
  
  He always told himself that if he did not relive those dark times, then he would forget 
them. But they were horridly vivid even now, some ten years after.
  
  He had loved Henry Stratford once. And Henry Stratford was the only lover Elliott had 
ever had who tried to blackmail him.
  
  Of course it had been an utter failure. Elliott had laughed in Henry's face. He'd 
called his bluff." Shall I tell your father all about it? Or shall I tell your uncle 
Lawrence first? He's going to be furious with me ... for perhaps five minutes. But you, 
his favourite nephew, he will despise till the day you die because I
  
  shall tell him all of it, you see, down to the sum of money you're demanding. What was 
it? Five hundred pounds? You've made yourself a wretch for that, imagine."
  
  How sullen and hurt Henry had been; how utterly confounded.
  
  It should have been a triumph; but nothing took the sting from the overall humiliation. 
Henry at twenty-two-a viper with an angel's face, turning on Elliott in their Paris hotel 
as if he were a common boy out of the gutter.
  
  And then there had been the little thefts. An hour after Henry had left, Elliot! had 
discovered that his cigarette case, his money clip and all his cash were missing. His 
dressing gown was gone; his cuff links. Other items he could no longer remember.
  
  He could never bring himself to mention the whole disaster. But he would have liked to 
needle Henry now, to slip up beside him and ask about the necklace that had just found 
its way into his pocket. Would Henry put it with the gold cigarette case, and the fine 
engraved money clip, and the diamond cuff links? Or lay it off on the same pawnbroker?
  
  It was ail too sad really. Henry had been a gifted young man; and it had all gone 
wrong, despite education and blood and countless opportunities. He'd started to gamble 
when he was no more than a boy; his drinking had become a disease by the time he was 
twenty-five; and now at thirty-two he had a perpetually sinister air that deepened his 
good looks and made him curiously repulsive in spite of them. And who suffered for it? 
Randolph, of course, who believed against all evidence that Henry's descent was his 
father's failure.
  
  Let him go to hell, Elliott thought. Maybe he'd sought some glimmer with Henry of the 
flame he'd known with Lawrence, and it was all his own fault-seeing the uncle in the 
nephew. But no, it had started as an honest thing in its own right. And Henry Stratford 
had pursued him, after all. Yes, to hell with Henry.
  
  It was the mummy Elliott had come to see. And the crowd had backed off a little again. 
He caught a fresh glass of wine from a passing tray, climbed to his feet, ignoring the 
outrageous stab of pain in his left hip, and made his way back to the solemn figure in 
the coffin.
  
  He looked at the face again, the grim set of the mouth with its firm chin. A man in his 
prime all right. And there was hair cleaving to the well-shaped skull beneath the swollen 
bandages. He lifted his glass in salute.
  
  "Ramses,"  he whispered, drawing closer. And then speaking in Latin, he said," Welcome 
to London. Do you know where London is?"  He laughed softly at himself speaking Latin to 
this thing. Then he quoted a few sentences from Caesar's account of his conquest of 
Britain." That's where you are, great King,"  he said. He made a feeble attempt to switch 
to Greek, but it was simply too hard for him. In Latin, he said:" I hope you like the 
damn place better than I do."
  
  There was a faint rustling sound suddenly. Where had it come from? How odd to hear it 
so distinctly when the roar of conversation all around him was such a persistent 
nuisance. But it sounded as if it had come from the coffin itself, right in front of him.
  
  He scanned the face again. Then the arms and hands, which appeared to be snagged in the 
rotted linen, as if they might fall loose at any moment. In fact, there was a distinct 
tear in the dark, dirty cloth, exposing a bit of the undergarment of the body right where 
the wrists were crossed. Not good. The thing was deteriorating right here before his 
eyes. Or there were tiny parasites at work. Must be stopped immediately.
  
</pre>
<!--N=2200 M=2400 pt=-->
  He looked down at the mummy's feet. This was alarming. A tiny pile of dust accumulating 
even as he watched, falling, it seemed, from the twisted right hand, on which the 
wrappings had been badly broken.
  
  "Good Lord, Julie must send this over to the museum immediately,"  he whispered. And 
then he heard that sound again. Rustling? No, it was fainter. Yes, the thing must be 
properly taken care of. God only knew what the London damp was doing to it. But surely 
Samir knew this. And so did Hancock.
  
  In Latin, he spoke to the mummy again." I don't like the damp either, great King. It 
gives me pain. And that's why I'm going home now, to leave you to your worshippers."
  
  He turned away, leaning heavily on his cane, to ease the ache in his hip. He glanced 
back only once. And the thing looked so robust. It was as if the Egyptian heat had not 
dried it out whatsoever.
  
  Daisy looked at the tiny necklace as Henry clasped it at the back of her neck. Her 
dressing room was packed with flowers, bottles of red wine, champagne cooling in ice, and 
other offerings, but none from a man as handsome as Henry Stratford.
  
  "Looks funny to me,"  she said, cocking her head to one side. Thin gold chain and a 
little trinket with paint on it, or that's what it looked like." Wherever did you get it?"
  
  "It's worth more than that trash you took off,"  Henry said, smiling. His speech was 
thick. He was drunk again. And that meant he would be mean, or very, very sweet." Now 
come on, ducky, we're going to Flint's. I feel uncommonly lucky, and there's a hundred 
pounds burning a hole in my pocket. Get a move on."
  
  "And you mean to say that loony cousin of yours is all alone in that house now with 
that bloomin' mummy case wide open right there in the parlour?"
  
  "Who the hell cares?"  He snatched up the white fox wrap he'd bought for her and put it 
over her shoulders, and pulled her out of the dressing room and towards the stage door.
  
  Flint's was packed when they got there. She hated the smoke, and the sour smell of 
drink; but it was always fun to be with him here when he had money and he was excited; 
and he kissed her now on the cheek as he led her towards the roulette wheel.
  
  "You know the rules. You stand on my left, and only on my left. That's always been 
lucky."
  
  She nodded. Look at all the fine gentlemen in this room; and the women just loaded with 
jewels. And she with this silly thing around her neck. It made her anxious.
  
  Julie jumped; what was that sound? She found herself vaguely embarrassed as she stood 
alone in the shadowy library.
  
  There was no one else here, but she could have sworn she heard another person. Not a 
step, no. Just all the tiny little sounds of another in the room very near to her.
  
  She looked at the mummy slumbering in its case. In the semi-darkness, it looked as if 
it were coated with a thin layer of ashes. And what a sombre, brooding expression it had. 
She really hadn't noticed before. It looked for all the world as if it were struggling 
with a bad dream. She could almost see a crease in the forehead.
  
  Was she glad now that they had not replaced the lid? She wasn't certain. But it was too 
late. She had sworn not to touch these things herself; and she must get to bed; she was 
more weary than she'd ever been. Her father's old friends had stayed forever. And then 
the newspaper people had barged in. What brazen effrontery! The guards had finally forced 
them out, but not before they had taken a whole series of pictures of the mummy.
  
  And now the clock was striking one. And there was no one here. So why was she 
trembling? She went quickly to the front door, and was about to throw the bolt when she 
remembered Henry. He was supposed to be her chaperon and her protector. Strange that he 
hadn't spoken a civil word to her since he'd come home. And he certainly had not been in 
his room upstairs. But nevertheless... She left the door unbolted.
  
  It was bitter cold as he stepped out into the deserted street. He slipped on his gloves 
quickly.
  
  Shouldn't have slapped her, he thought. But she shouldn't have butted in, damn her. He 
knew what he was doing. He had doubled his money ten times! If only on that last throw! 
And then as he argued to sign a note, she'd butted in!" But you mustn't!"
  
  Infuriating, the way they'd looked at him. He knew what he owed. He knew what he was 
doing. And Sharpies there, that scum. As if he were afraid of Sharpies.
  
  It was Sharpies who stepped out of the alleyway now in front of him. For a moment he 
wasn't entirely certain. It was so dark, with the fog rolling just above the ground, but 
then in the seam of light from the window above, he saw the man's pockmarked face.
  
  "Get out of my way,"  he said.
  
  "Another streak of bad luck, sir?"  Sharpies fell into step beside him." And the little 
lady costing you money. She was always expensive, sir, even when she worked for me. And 
I'm a generous man, you know."
  
  "Let me alone, you bloody fool."  He stepped up the pace. The street lamp was out up 
ahead. And there wouldn't be a cab at this hour.
  
  "Not without a little interest on account, sir."  Henry stopped. The Cleopatra coin. 
Would the imbecile realize what it was worth? Suddenly he felt the man's fingers digging 
into his arm.
  
  "You dare!"  He pulled away. Then slowly he removed the coin from his inside coat 
pocket, held it out in the dim light and raised his eyebrow as he looked at the man, who 
gathered it out of his palm immediately.
  
  "Ah, now that's a beauty, sir. A real ar ... kay ... o ... logical beauty!"  He turned 
the coin over, as if the inscriptions actually meant something to him." You pinched it, 
didn't you, sir? From your uncle's treasure, am I right?"
  
  "Take it or leave it!"
  
  Sharpies made his hand a fist around the coin, like a man doing a magic trick for a 
child.
  
  "Butter wouldn't melt in your mouth, would h, sir?"  He slipped the coin into his 
pocket." Was he still lying there, gasping, sir, when you pinched it? Or did you wait 
till he'd breathed his last?"
  
  "Go to hell."
  
  "This won't cover it, sir. No, sir, not by a long shot, sir. Not what you owe me and 
Die gentlemen at Flint's, sir."
  
  Henry turned on his heel; he made a small adjustment of his top hat against the driving 
wind; he began to walk fast towards the corner. He could hear the scrape of Sharples's 
heels on the pavement behind him. And no one ahead in the misty dark; no one behind, that 
little seam of light from the door of Flint's no longer visible.
  
  He could hear Sharpies drawing close to him. Into the pocket of his coat he reached. 
His knife. Slowly he drew it out, opened the blade, and gripped the handle tight.
  
  Suddenly he felt the pressure of Sharpies against his back.
  
  "Seems to me you need a little lesson in paying your debts, sir,"  the bastard said to 
him.
  
  Sharples's hand came down on his shoulder; but Henry turned swiftly, forcing his knee 
against Sharpies and knocking him off balance a step. For the brilliant silk of his vest 
Henry aimed, where the knife might go in between the ribs, with no impediment. And to his 
astonishment he felt it sink into the man's chest, and saw the white of Sharples's teeth 
as he opened his mouth in a dry scream.
  
  "Bloody fool! I told you to leave me alone!"  He drew out the knife and stabbed the man 
again. He heard the silk rip this time, and he stepped back, trembling violently all over.
  
  The man took a few faltering steps. Then he fell down on his knees. Gently he pitched 
forward, shoulders hunched, and then softly heaved to one side, his body going limp and 
loose on the pavement.
  
  Henry couldn't see his face in the dark. He saw only the lifeless form sprawled there. 
The bitter cold of the night paralyzed him. His heart thudded in his ears as it had in 
the chamber in Egypt when he had gazed down at Lawrence lying dead on the floor.
  
  Well, damn him! He shouldn't have tried that with me! The rage choked him. He could not 
move his right hand, so cold it was, in spite of the glove, the knife clutched in it. 
Carefully, he lifted his left hand, and closed the knife and put it away.
  
  He glanced from right to left. Darkness, silence. Only the faraway rumble of a motor 
car on a distant street. Water dripping somewhere, as if from a broken gutter. And the 
sky above lightening ever so faintly-the color of slate.
  
  He knelt down in the thinning darkness. He reached out for that gleaming silk again, 
and careful not to touch the great dark wet spot spreading there, he reached under the 
lapel of the coat. The man's wallet. Fat, full of money!
  
  He did not even examine the contents. Instead he slipped it in the same pocket with the 
knife. And then he turned on his heel, lifted his chin and walked off with crisp loud 
steps. He even began to whistle.
  
  Later, when he was comfortably settled in the back of a cab, he drew the wallet out. 
Three hundred pounds. Well, that was not bad. But as he stared down at the wad of dirty 
bills, a panic seized him. It seemed he couldn't speak or move, and when he looked out 
the little window of the hansom, he saw only the soiled grey sky over the roofs of the 
dreary tenements, and there seemed nothing he wanted, or could want, or could ever have 
that would alleviate the hopelessness he felt.
  
  Three hundred pounds. But he had not killed the man for that. Why, who could say he had 
killed anyone! His uncle Lawrence had died of a stroke in Cairo. And as for Sharpies, a 
despicable moneylender he had made the acquaintance of in Flint's one evening, well, one 
of Sharples's confederates had killed him. Sneaked up on him in a dark street and sunk a 
knife in his ribs.
  
  Of course that's what had happened. Who would connect him to these sordid affairs?
  
  He was Henry Stratford, vice chairman of Stratford Shipping, a member of a 
distinguished family soon to be connected by marriage to the Earl of Rutherford. No one 
would dare...
  
  And he would call now on his cousin. Explain that he was a little down on his luck. And 
she would surely come up with a comfortable sum, three times perhaps what he held in his 
hand, because she would understand it was only temporary, these losses. And it would be a 
great relief to make them right.
  
  His cousin, his only sister. Once they had loved each other, Julie and he. Loved each 
other as only a sister and a brother can. He would remind her. She wouldn't give him any 
trouble, and then he could rest for a little while.
  
  That was the worst part of it of late. He couldn't rest.
  
  JULIE PADDED softly down the stairs in her slippers, 11 the full folds of her lace 
peignoir gathered in one hand so that she did not trip, her brown hair in loose waves 
over her shoulders and down her back.
  
  She saw the sun before she saw anything else, as she entered the library-the great 
blessed flood of yellow light filling the glass conservatory beyond the open doors, a 
dazzle amid the ferns, and in the dancing water of the fountain and in the great mesh of 
green leaves curling beneath the glass ceiling.
</pre>
<!--N=2400 M=2600 pt=-->
  
  Long slanting rays fell on the mask of Ramses the Damned in its shadowy corner, on the 
dark colours of the Oriental carpet, and on the mummy himself as he stood upright in his 
open case, the tightly wrapped face and limbs becoming golden in the haze, golden as 
desert sand at midday.
  
  The room lightened before Julie's eyes. The sun exploded suddenly on the gold Cleopatra 
coins on their bed of velvet. It shimmered on the smooth marble bust of Cleopatra with 
its demure, half-lidded gaze. It caught the translucent alabaster of the long row of 
jars. It gleamed on tiny bits and pieces of old gold throughout the room, and on the 
gilded titles of the many leather-bound books. It struck the deep-graven name" Lawrence 
Stratford"  written on his velvet-covered diary that lay on the desk.
  
  Julie stood still, feeling the warmth surround her. The dark musty smell was fading. 
And the mummy, it seemed to move in the brightening light, as if responding to the heat. 
To sigh almost like a flower opening. What a tantalizing illusion. Of course it had not 
moved at all; yet it did seem fuller, somehow, its powerful shoulders and arms more 
rounded, its fingers poised as if alive.
  
  "Ramses ..."  she whispered.
  
  There came that sound again, the sound that had startled her the night before. But no, 
it wasn't a sound, not really. Just the breath of this great house. Of timbers and 
plaster in the warmth of the morning. She closed her eyes for a moment. And then Rita's 
step sounded in the hall. Of course, it had been Rita all along ... the sound of another 
very near-heartbeat, breath, the subtle shift of garments in motion.
  
  "Well, miss, I tell you I don't like that thing in the house,"  Rita said. Was that her 
feather duster softly brushing the living room furniture?
  
  Julie didn't turn around to look. She looked at the mummy. She approached it now and 
looked up into its face. Good Lord, she had not really seen it last night. Not as she was 
seeing it now in this great warm glare. It had been a living breathing man, this thing, 
locked forever in its cerements.
  
  "I do declare, miss, it gives me the shivers."
  
  "Don't be absurd, Rita. Bring me some coffee, like a good girl."  She drew even closer 
to the thing. After all, there was no one here to stop her. She could touch it if she 
wished. She listened for Rita's retreat. Heard the kitchen door open and close. Then she 
did reach out and touch the linen bandages that covered the right arm. Too soft, too 
fragile. And hot from the sun!
  
  "No, this is not good for you, is it?"  she asked, glancing up at the thing's eyes as 
if it were rude to do otherwise." But I don't want them to take you away. I '11 miss you 
when you're no longer here. But I won't let them cut you open. That much, I promise you."
  
  Was that dark brown hair she saw beneath the bandages that surrounded the skull? It 
seemed there was a great thickness of it there, bound painfully tight to the bones, 
giving a horrid effect of baldness. But it was the overall spectacle that really caught 
her and carried her away now from the details. The thing had a distinct personality, 
rather like a fine sculpture would have. Tall, broad-shouldered Ramses with his head 
bowed, and his hands in that attitude of resignation.
  
  The words in the diary came back to her with painful clarity." You are immortal, my 
love,"  she said." My father's seen to it. You may curse us for opening your tomb, but 
thousands will come to see you; thousands will eventually speak your name. You will live 
forever. ..."
  
  So strange that she was on the verge of tears. Father dead. And this which had meant so 
much to him. Father in an unmarked grave in Cairo as he had wanted it to be; and Ramses 
the Damned the toast of London.
