the ball afterwards."
  
  "That's absurd!"  Julie said.
  
  "No, my child. Do it for me. It's the last demand I shall ever make on you. I want the 
social fabric restored. I want my son to be seen with his father, and his friends; with 
Ramsey, whose name shall be cleared. I want us all to be seen together. I want no shadows 
over Alex's future. And whatever the future holds for you, don't shut the gate on the 
life you once lived. It's worth the price of one night's pomp and ceremony to keep that 
gate open."
  
  "Ah, Lord Rutherford, how you always amuse me and satisfy me,"  Ramses said." In 
another world and another life, I used to say such inane things myself to those around 
me. It's palaces and titles which do such things to us. But I've remained here long 
enough. Samir, come with me if you will. Otherwise I'm going alone now."
  
  "I'm with you, sire,"  Samir said. He rose and made a ceremonial little bow to 
Elliott." Until tomorrow, my lord."
  
  Ramses went out first; then Samir. For a moment Julie couldn't move; then she rose out 
of the chair and went running out of the door after Ramses. She caught him in the dark 
stairwell at the rear of the wing, and once again, they held each other.
  
  "Please love me, Julie Stratford,"  he whispered." I am not always such a fool, I swear 
it."  He held her face in his hands.
  
  "You'll go to London where you are safe, and you shall see me when this horror is 
finished."
  
  She went to protest.
  
  "I do not He to you. I love you too much for that. I have told you everything."
  
  She watched him slip down the stairs. He put the headdress on again and became the 
sheikh before he went out into the darkness, one hand raised in a graceful farewell.
  
  She didn't want to return to her rooms. She didn't want to see Elliott.
  
  She knew now why he had made this journey; she had sensed it all along, but now she 
knew for certain. Following Ramses to the museum, that he had ever gone to such an 
extreme, astonished her.
  
  On second thought, why should it astonish her? After all, he had believed; he had been 
the only one, other than Samir, perhaps, who believed. And so the mystery and the promise 
had lured him.
  
</pre>
<!--N=14000 M=14200 pt=-->
  As she walked back to her rooms, she prayed he understood the full evil that had 
unfolded. And when she thought of any creature-no matter how evil or dangerous or 
cruel-being shut up in the dark, unable to wake, she shuddered and began to cry again.
  
  He was there still, drinking the last of the gin as he sat in the overstuffed chair, so 
self-contained and elegant even in his drunkenness, hands curved around the cane.
  
  He did not look up when she came in. He did not gather his strength to leave. She shut 
the door and faced him.
  
  Her words came swiftly, without thought. But she made no accusations. She told him only 
all that Ramses had said. She told the tale of the food that could not be eaten, and the 
cattle that could not be slaughtered, the tale of the insatiable hunger and craving of 
the flesh; she told the tale of loneliness, of isolation; it all came in a rush, as she 
paced back and forth, not looking at him, not meeting his eyes.
  
  And finally it was done and the room was still.
  
  "When we were young,"  he said," your father and I, we spent many months in Egypt. We 
pored over our books; we studied the ancient tombs; we translated the texts; we roamed 
the sands by day and by night. Ancient Egypt; it became our muse, our religion. We 
dreamed of some secret knowledge here
  
  that would transport us from all the things that seemed to lead to boredom and finally 
hopelessness.
  
  "Did the pyramids really contain some secret yet undiscovered? Did the Egyptians know a 
magic language to which the gods themselves listen? What undiscovered tombs lay within 
these hills? What philosophy remained to be revealed? What alchemy?
  
  "Or did this culture produce a mere semblance of high learning; a semblance of true 
mystery? We wondered now and then if they had been not wise, and mystical, but a simple, 
literal, brutal people.
  
  "We never knew. I don't know now. I see now it was the quest that was the passion! The 
quest, you understand?"
  
  She didn't answer. When she looked at him, he looked very old. His eyes were leaden. He 
climbed out of the chair, and came towards her, and kissed her cheek. He did this as 
gracefully as he did all things. That strange thought came to her again which had come so 
often in the past. She could have loved him and married him, had there been no Alex and 
no Edith.
  
  And no Ramses,
  
  "I fear for you, my dear,"  he said. And then he left her.
  
  The night, the silent empty night, with only the thinnest echo of the music below, lay 
before her. And all her past countless nights of good and dreamless sleep seemed like the 
lost comforts and delusions of childhood.
  
  DAWN. THE great endless rosy sky spread out beyond the dim shadows of the pyramids and 
the roughened, disfigured Sphinx, with his paws sprawled on the yellow sand before him.
  
  The dim shape of the Mena House lay still and quiet with only a few tiny lights in its 
rear rooms.
  
  Only a solitary man, draped in black, rode his ugly camel across the horizon. Somewhere 
a steam train gave its deep, throbbing whistle.
  
  Ramses walked through the sand, his garments blown back by the cold wind, until he came 
to the giant Sphinx and stood between its feet looking up at the ruined face, which in 
his time had been beautiful still, covered over in a fine casing of shining limestone.
  
  "But you stand here still,"  he whispered in the ancient tongue, surveying this ruin.
  
  In the cool still morning, he let himself remember a time when all answers had seemed 
to him to be so simple; when he the brave King had taken life with a swift blow of his 
sword or his cudgel. When he'd struck down the priestess in her cave so no one else would 
possess the great secret.
  
  A thousand times he'd wondered if that had not been his first and most terrible sin-to 
kill the innocent crone whose laughter still echoed in his ears.
  
  I am not fool enough to drink it.
  
  Was he truly damned for that? A wanderer on the face of the earth like the biblical 
Cain, marked by this great eternal vigour which separated him from all humankind forever?
  
  He did not know. He knew only that he could not bear to be the only one any longer. He 
had blundered, he would blunder again. It was a certainty now.
  
  Yet what if his isolation was meant? And every attempt would end in such disaster?
  
  He laid his hand on the hard rough stone of the Sphinx's paw. The sand was deep and 
soft here, and the wind stirred it as it ruffled his robes, and tore at his eyes cruelly.
  
  Again he looked up at the disfigured face. He thought back to the age when he had come 
here in pilgrimage and in procession. He heard the flutes, the drums. He smelled the 
incense again and heard the soft, rhythmic incantations.
  
  He made his own prayer now, but it was in the language and the manner of those times 
which gave him some sweet childish comfort.
  
  "God of my fathers; of my land. Look down on me with forgiveness. Teach me the way; 
teach me what I must do to give back to nature what I have taken. Or do I walk away in 
all humility, crying that I have blundered enough? I am no god. I know nothing of 
creation. And little of justice.
  
  "But one thing is certain. Those who made us all know little of justice either. Or what 
they do know, great Sphinx, is like your wisdom. A very great secret."
  
  The great grey shadow of Shepheard's Hotel grew darker and ever more solid in the 
rising light as Samir and Ramses approached it-two robed figures moving swiftly and 
silently together.
  
  A cumbersome black truck, rocking on its four wheels, pulled into the front drive 
before they reached it. Newspapers in tightly bound bundles were thrown down upon the 
pavement.
  
  Samir removed one quickly from the first bundle as the bellboys came out to collect the 
others. He felt in his pocket for a coin and gave it to one of the boys, who took little 
heed of it.
  
  ROBBERY AND MURDER IN DRESS SHOP
  
  Ramses read the headline over his shoulder. The two men looked at each other.
  
  Then they walked away from the sleeping hotel, in search of some early morning cafe 
where they might sit and think and read this evil news, and ponder what to do about it.
  
  Her eyes were open when the first rays of the sun pierced the thin curtains. How 
beautiful it looked to her, the great arms of the god, reaching out to touch her.
  
  How stupid the Greeks had been to think the mighty disk the chariot of a deity, driven 
wildly over the horizon.
  
  Her ancestors had known: the sun was the god Ra. The giver of life. The one and only 
god before all gods, without whom all gods were nothing.
  
  The sun struck the mirror; and a great golden glare filled the room, blinding her for 
an instant. She sat up in the bed, her hand resting lightly on the shoulder of her lover. 
A dizziness overcame her. It seemed her head was teeming suddenly.
  
  "Ramses!"  she whispered.
  
  The warm sun fell silently over her face, her knotted brows and her closed eyelids. She 
felt it on her breasts and on her outstretched arm.
  
  Tingling; warmth; a sudden great breath of well-being.
  
  She rose from the bed, and moved on swift feet across the deep green carpet. Softer 
than grass, it ate the sound of her steps completely.
  
  She stood in the window looking out over the square, looking out again to the great 
silver glare of the river. With the back of her hand, she touched her own warm cheek.
  
  A deep ripple of sensation passed through her. It was as if a wind had caught her hair 
and lifted it lightly off her neck; a hot desert wind, stealing over the sands, slipping 
into the palace halls, and creeping over her, and somehow into her, and through her.
  
  Her hair made a soft zinging sound as if being stroked by a hairbrush.
  
  In the catacombs it had begun! The old priest had told the tale, and they all laughed 
at supper. An immortal slumbering in a deep rock tomb, Ramses the Damned, counsel to 
dynasties past, who had gone to sleep in the dark in the time of her 
great-great-grandfathers .
  
  And when she'd awakened, she'd called for him.
  
  "It is an old legend. My father's father told it to him, though he did not believe it. 
But I have seen him with my own eyes, the sleeping King. Yet you must be aware of the 
danger."
  
  Thirteen years old. She did not believe in such a thing as danger; not in the ordinary 
sense; there had always been danger.
  
  They walked together through the rough-cut stone passage. Dust fell from the loose 
ceiling above. The priest carried the torch before them.
  
  "What danger? These catacombs are the danger. They may cave in on us!"
  
  Several rocks had fallen at her feet.
  
  "I tell you I don't like this, old man."
  
  The priest had pushed on. A thin baldheaded man with stooped shoulders.
  
  "The legend says that once awakened, he cannot easily be dispatched. He is no mindless 
thing, but an immortal man with a will of his own. He will counsel the King or Queen of 
Egypt, as he has done in the past, but he will do as he pleases as well."
  
  "My father knew of this?"
  
  "He was told. He did not believe. Neither did your father's father, or his father. Ah, 
but King Ptolemy, in the time of Alexander, he knew, and he called Ramses forth saying 
the words: 'Rise, Ramses the Great, a King of Egypt needs your counsel.'"
  
  "And he returned, this Ramses, to his darkened chamber? Leaving only the priests with 
the secret?"
  
  "So I have been told, as my father was told, and that I should come to the sovereign of 
my time and tell the story."
  
  It was hot, suffocating, in this place. No coolness of the deep earth here. She did not 
like to go any further. She did not like the flickering of the torch; the evil light on 
the rounded ceiling. Here and mere were marks on the walls, scribbles in the ancient 
picture language. She could not read them; who could? It made her afraid, and she loathed 
being afraid.
  
</pre>
<!--N=14200 M=14400 pt=-->
  And they had taken so many twists and turns that she could never find her own way out 
now.
  
  "Yes, tell the Queen of your time the tale,"  she said," while she is young enough and 
fool enough to listen."
  
  "Young enough to have faith. That is what you have; faith and dreams. Wisdom is not 
always the gift of old age, Majesty. Rather, it is sometimes the curse."
  
  "And so we go to this ancient one?"  She had laughed.
  
  "Courage, Majesty. He lies there, beyond those doors."
  
  She'd peered ahead. There were a pair of doors-enormous doors! Layered over with dust, 
and covered beneath the dust with inscriptions. Her heart had quickened.
  
  "Take me into this chamber."
  
  "Yes, Majesty. But remember the caution. Once waked he cannot be sent away. He is a 
powerful immortal."
  
  "I don't care! I want to see this!"
  
  She'd gone ahead of the old man. In the dancing glow from his torch she'd read the 
Greek aloud:
  
  "Here lies Ramses the Immortal. Called by himself Ramses the Damned, for he cannot die. 
And sleeps eternally, waiting the call of the Kings and Queens of Egypt."
  
  She'd stepped back.
  
  "Open the doors! Hurry!"
  
  Behind her, he had touched some secret place in the wall. With a great grinding the 
doors had slid back slowly, revealing a vast unadorned chamber.
  
  The priest had raised the torch high as he entered beside her. Dust, the clean pale 
yellow dust of a cave unknown to the wild beasts or the poor wanderers and haunters of 
hills and caves and tombs.
  
  And there on the altar, a gaunt shriveled being, withered limbs crossed on his breasts; 
brown hair wisps about his skull.
  
  "You poor fool. He's dead. The dry air here preserves him."
  
  "No, Majesty. See the shutter high above, and the chains hanging from it. It must be 
opened now."
  
  He had given her the torch, and with both hands tugged upon the chains. Again, the 
grinding, the creaking; dust filling the air, stinging her eyes, but then high above a 
great iron-bound shutter had opened. Like an eye into the blue heavens.
  
  The hot summer sun poured down upon the sleeping man. Her eyes had grown wide; what 
words were there to describe what she had seen, the body filling out; reviving. The brown 
hair flowing from the scalp, and then the eyelids, shuddering, eyelashes curling.
  
  "He lives. It's true."
  
  She'd thrown aside the torch and run to the altar. She'd bent over him, as far as she 
dared not to shade him from the sun.
  
  And the brilliant blue eyes had opened!
  
  "Ramses the Great, rise! A Queen of Egypt needs your counsel."
  
  Motionless, silent, staring up at her.
  
  "So beautiful,"  he had whispered.
  
  She stared out at the square before Shepheard's Hotel. She saw the city of Cairo coming 
to life. The carts, the motor cars, moved noisily through the clean paved streets; birds 
sang in the neatly trimmed trees. Barges moved on the smooth river water.
  
  The words of Elliot Rutherford came back to her. "Many centuries have passed... modern 
times... Egypt has had many conquerors... wonders such as you cannot imagine."
  
  Ramses stood before her in the Bedouin robes, weeping, begging her to listen.
  
  In the dark place of glinting glass and statues and coffins on end, she'd risen up, in 
pain, her arms out, crying his name!
  
  The blood had poured down his shirt where they'd wounded him. Yet he'd staggered 
towards her. Then the second shot had struck his arm. Same evil pain that the one called 
Henry had given to her, same blood and pain, and in the murky morning light, she'd seen 
them drag him away.
  
  I can't die now. Isn't that right?
  
  Ramses had stood at the door of her bedchamber. She'd been crying, a young queen in 
torment. "But for how many years?"
  
  "I don't know. I only know you cannot give up all this now. You don't know the meaning 
of what I offer you. So let me go. Use the knowledge I've given you. I'll return. Be sure 
of it. I'll return when you most have need of me, and then perhaps you will have had your 
lovers and had your wars and had your grief, and you will welcome me."
  
  "But I love you."
  
  The bedroom of Shepheard's Hotel was awash in blinding light; the furnishings vanished 
in the pulsing glow. The soft curtains touched her face as they blew out past her. She 
leaned forward over the windowsill, drowsing; her head swimming.
  
  "Ramses, I remember!"
  
  In the dress shop, die look on the woman's face! The serving girl screaming. And the 
young man, the poor young man who had looked down and seen the bone!
  
  Ye gods, what have you done to me!
  
  She turned, staggering away from the light, but it was all around her. The mirror was 
ablaze. She went down on her knees, her hands on the warm green rug. She lay down, 
tossing, turning, trying to push away the fierce power that penetrated her brain; that 
penetrated her heart. A great pulsing vibration had caught her entire form. She floated 
in space. And finally lay still
  
  in the great vibrating drift, the hot light blanketing her skin, an orange fire against 
her eyelids.
  
  Elliott sat alone on the deep veranda. The empty bottle sparkled in the light of the 
morning sun. He dozed as he lay against the cushioned back of the chair, mind now and 
then wandering. Fasting, drinking, the long sleepless night, all had sharpened him and 
left him slightly mad; it seemed the light itself was a miracle streaking the sky; it 
seemed the great glossy silver car rumbling up the drive was a joke of sorts; and so was 
the tunny grey-haired man who climbed down off the high seat and came towards him.
  
  "I've been with Winthrop all night." "You have my sympathies."
  
  "Old man, we have an appointment at ten-thirty to clear everything up. Can you manage 
it?"
  
  "Yes. I shall manage it. You may depend upon me. And Ramsey can be there if ... if ... 
You've obtained full immunity."
  
  "Full and complete as long as he'll sign a sworn statement against Stratford. You know 
of course he struck again last night, robbed a shop-woman was in there with a full drawer 
of cash. He took everything."
  
  "Hmmmmm. Bastard,"  Elliott whispered." Old man, it's very important you get up out of 
this chair, have a good bath and a good shave and be there. ..."
  
  "Gerald, on my word. I shall. Ten-thirty, the governor's palace."
  
  Blessed quiet. The ugly car had gone away. The boy came again." Breakfast, my lord?"
  
  "Bring a little something, and some orange juice with it. And ring my son's room again. 
And check the desk. Surely he's left a message!"
  
  It was late morning before her young lord finally awoke.
  
  Rome had fallen. And two thousand years had passed.
  
  For hours she'd sat at the window, dressed in a" fine blue frock,"  watching the modern 
city. All the bits and pieces of what she'd seen and heard were now a complete tapestry. 
Yet there was so much to know, to understand.
  
  She'd feasted, and had the servants take away the evidence; she did not want anyone to 
see the bestial manner in which she'd consumed so much food.
  
  Now his small banquet waited for him. And when he came towards her out of the bedroom, 
"So beautiful,"  she said under her breath.
  
  "What is it, Your Highness?"  He bent to kiss her. She wrapped her arms around his 
waist and kissed his naked chest.
  
  "Take your breakfast, young lord,"  she said." There are so many things I must 
discover. So many things I must see."
  
  He seated himself at the small draped table. He lighted the candles with the "matches."
  
  "Aren't you joining me?"
  
  "I've already feasted, my love. Can you show me the modern city? Can you show me the 
palaces of the British who rule this land?"
  
  "I'll show you everything, Your Highness,"  he said, with the same unguarded gentleness.
  
  She sat across from him.
  
  "You're very simply the strangest person I've ever met,"  he said, and again there was 
no mockery or meanness in it." In fact, you remind me of someone I know, a very enigmatic 
man ... but that doesn't matter. Why are you smiling at me like that? What are you 
thinking?"
  
  "So beautiful,"  she whispered again." You and all of life, my young lord. It is 
everything and nothing. So beautiful."
  
  He blushed like a girl and then laid down the silver tools and leaned across the table 
and once again kissed her.
  
  "You're crying,"  he said.
  
  "Yes. But I am happy. Stay with me, young lord. Do not leave me just now."
  
  He appeared startled, then transfixed. She combed the past slowly; had she ever known 
anyone so gentle? Perhaps in childhood, when she'd been too stupid to know what it meant.
  
  "I don't want to leave you for me world, Your Highness,"  he said. He appeared sad 
again for a second, half disbelieving. And then at a loss.
  
  "And the opera tonight, my lord, shall we go together? Shall we dance at the opera 
</pre>
<!--N=14400 M=14600 pt=-->
ball?"
  
  Lovely the light that came to his eyes." That would be heaven,"  he whispered.
  
  She gestured to the plates before him." Your food, my lord."
  
  He picked at it in mortal fashion. Then lifted a bundle from beside his plate, which 
she had taken no notice of before. He tore off the wrapping and opened what appeared to 
be a thick manuscript covered over with tiny writing.
  
  "Tell me what this is."
  
  "Why, a newspaper,"  he said, half laughing. He glanced at it." And awful news, too."
  
  "Read aloud."
  
  "You wouldn't really want to hear it. Some poor woman in a dress shop, with her neck 
broken like all the rest. And they've got a picture of Ramsey with Julie. What a 
disaster!"
  
  Ramses?
  
  "It's the talk of Cairo, Your Highness. You may as well know now. My friends have been 
involved in a fair bit of trouble, but that's just it, they've nothing to do with it. 
They've only been associated with it. There ... you see this man?"
  
  Ramses. They are friends of Lawrence Stratford, the archaeologist, the one who dug up 
the mummy of Ramses the Damned.
  
  "He's a dear friend of my father and of me. They're searching for him. Some foolishness 
about stealing a mummy from the Cairo Museum. It's all hogwash. It will soon blow over."  
He broke off." Your Highness? Don't let this story frighten you. There's nothing to it, 
really."
  
  She stared at this "picture,"  not a drawing like the rest but a dense image, rather 
like a painting, yet it was all done in ink, undoubtedly. The ink even rubbed off on her 
fingers. And there he stood. Ramses, beside a camel and a camel driver, dressed in the 
curious heavy clothes of this age. The print beneath said" Valley of the Kings."
  
  She almost laughed aloud; yet she did not move or say a word. It seemed the moment 
stretched into eternity. The young lord was talking, but she couldn't hear him. Was he 
saying that he must call his father, that his father must need him now?
  
  In a trance, she watched him move away from her. He had laid the paper down. The 
picture. She looked at him. He was picking up a strange instrument from the table. He was 
talking into it. Asking for Lord Rutherford.
  
  At once she was on her feet. Gently she took the thing away from him. She set it down.
  
  "Don't leave me now, young lord,"  she said." Your father can wait for you. I need you 
now."
  
  Baffled, he looked at her; he made no move to stop her as she embraced him.
  
  "Don't bring the world to us just yet,"  she whispered in his ear, kissing him." Let us 
have this time together."
  
  So completely he gave in. So quickly came the fire.
  
  "Don't be timid,"  she whispered." Caress me; let your hands do what they will as they 
did last night."
  
  Once again he belonged to her, enslaving her with his kisses, stroking her breasts 
through the blue frock.
  
  "Have you come to me by magic?"  he whispered." Just when I thought ... when I thought 
..."  And then he was kissing her again, and she led him towards the bed.
  
  She picked up the newspaper as they went into the bedroom. As they sank down on the 
sheets together, she showed it to him, just as he removed the robe.
  
  "Tell me,"  she said, pointing to the little group of figures standing by the camel in 
the sun." Who is that woman beside him?"
  
  "Julie, Julie Stratford,"  he said.
  
  Then there were no words, only their frantic, hurried and delicious embraces; his hips 
grinding against her; his sex pumping into her again.
  
  When it was all over, and he lay still, she ran her fingers through his hair.
  
  "This woman; does he care for her?"
  
  "Yes,"  he said sleepily." And she loves him. But that doesn't matter now."
  
  "Why do you say this?"
  
  "Because I have you,"  he said, Ramsey was at his best, evincing that easy charm mat 
had subdued everyone on the voyage out; he sat back, spotless and carelessly fashionable 
in the white linen suit, his hair tousled, blue eyes sparkling with a near boyish vigour, 
"I tried to reason with him. When he broke the case and removed the mummy, I realized it 
was hopeless. I tried to get out on my own, but the guards, well, you know the story."
  
  "But they said they shot you, they-"
  
  "Sir, these men are not the soldiers of ancient Egypt. They're hirelings who barely 
know how to fire their guns. They would not have beaten the Hittites."
  
  Winthrop laughed in spite of himself. Even Gerald was charmed. Elliott glanced at 
Samir, who dared not crack the smallest smile.
  
  "Well, if only we could find Henry,"  Miles said.
  
  "No doubt his creditors are looking for him, too,"  Ramsey
  
  said quickly.
  
  "Well, let's get back to this question of the jail. It seems there
  
  was a doctor there when you-" Gerald finally intervened:
  
  "Winthrop,"  he said," you know very well that this man's innocent. It's Henry. It's 
been Henry all along. Everything points to it. He broke into the Cairo Museum, stole the 
mummy, sold it for profit, went on a drunken rampage with the money. You found the 
wrappings in the belly dancer's house. Henry's name was found in the loan shark's book in 
London." "But the whole story is so ..."  Elliott motioned for silence.
  
  "Ramsey has been subjected to enough, and so have we. He's already made the crucial 
statement that Henry confessed to the murder of his uncle."
  
  "He made this very plain to me,"  Ramsey said dryly." I want our passports returned 
immediately,"  Elliott said." But the British Museum ..." "Young man,"  Gerald began.
  
  "Lawrence Stratford gave a fortune to the British Museum,"  Elliott declared. Finally 
he could take no more. He had reached his limit with this farce." Listen, Miles,"  he 
said, leaning forward." You clear this up, and now, unless you intend to become a social 
recluse. For I assure you that if my party, including Reginald Ramsey, is not on the noon 
train tomorrow for Port Said, you will never be received again by any family in Cairo or 
London which hopes to receive the seventeenth Earl of Rutherford. Do I make myself clear?"
  
  Silence in the office. The young man blanched. This was excruciating.
  
  "Yes, my lord,"  he answered under his breath. At once he opened the desk drawer and 
produced the passports one by one, laying them down on the blotter before him.
  
  Elliott managed to scoop them up with a neat quick gesture before Gerald could do it.
  
  "I find this as disagreeable as you do,"  he said." I've never said such words before 
to any human being in my life, but I want my son released so he can go back to England. 
Then I'll stay in this bloody place as long as you want me here. I'll answer any question 
you like."
  
  "Yes, my lord, if I can tell the governor that you will stay-"
  
  "I just told you that, didn't I? Do you want a blood oath?"  Enough said. He felt 
Gerald's hand on his arm. He had what he wanted.
  
  Samir helped him to his feet. They led the party out of the anteroom, through the 
hallway and onto the front veranda.
  
  "Well done, Gerald,"  he said." I'll call you if I need you. I've appreciate your 
notifying Randolph about this. It's a little more than I can bear at the moment. But I'll 
write a long letter soon. ..."
  
  "I'll soften everything. No need at all for him to know the details. When Henry's 
arrested, it's going to be dreadful enough."
  
  "Let's worry about that when it happens."
  
  Ramsey was clearly impatient. He started down the steps towards the waiting car. 
Elliott shook Gerald's hand and then followed.
  
  "Are we quite finished with this little performance?"  Ramsey said." I am wasting 
valuable time here!"
  
  "Well, you have a lot of time, don't you?"  Elliott said with a polite smile. He was a 
little light-headed suddenly. They had won. The children could get out." It's imperative 
that you come back to the hotel now,"  he said," that you be seen there."
  
  "Foolishness! And the idea of the opera tonight is positively ludicrous."
  
  "Expediency!"  said Elliott, climbing into the backseat of the car first." Get in,"  he 
said.
  
  Ramsey stood there, angry, dejected.
  
  "Sue, what can we do until we have some further evidence of where she might be?"  Samir 
asked." On our own, we cannot find her."
  
  This time the little room that moved did not scare her. She knew what it was, and that 
it was to serve the people of these times, as the railroad served them and the motor 
cars, and all the strange devices that had seemed to her earlier as instruments of 
horror, things exquisitely capable of bringing suffering and death.
  
  They didn't torture people by packing them into the little room and making them travel 
up and down. They didn't drive the big locomotives into advancing armies. How strange 
that she had interpreted things in terms of their most malicious uses.
  
  And he was explaining things to her now, freely and easily- hi fact, he had been 
talking for hours. It wasn't important to ask him specific questions, except 
occasionally; he liked telling her all about the mummy of Ramses the Damned, and how 
Julie Stratford was a modern woman; and how Britain ran its great empire, and so forth 
and so on. That he had loved Julie Stratford was obvious; Ramsey had "stolen"  her, but 
again, it didn't matter. Not at all. What he'd thought was love wasn't love but something 
paler, more convenient, and altogether too easy. But did she really want to hear about 
his family? No, talk of history, then, and Cairo, and Egypt, and the world...
  
  It had been a great chore to keep him from calling his father. He felt guilty. But she 
had used all her persuasion and all her wiles. He did not require fresh garments; his 
shirt and jacket looked every bit as fine as they had last night.
</pre>
<!--N=14600 M=14800 pt=-->
  
  And so off they were going now through the crowded lobby of Shepheard's, to drive in 
his Rolls-Royce, to see the Mamluke tombs and all the" history"  mat she had asked about; 
and the tapestry was becoming fuller and fuller.
  
  But he'd remarked more than once on how changed she seemed from last night, when she 
had been almost playful. And that made her faintly afraid. How strong her affection was 
for
  
  him.
  
  "And do you like this?"  she asked as they moved towards the front doors.
  
  He paused. It was as if he were seeing her for the first time. It was so simple to 
smile at him; he deserved one's tenderest smile." You're the loveliest, most wonderful 
thing that's ever come into my life,"  he said." I wish I could put into words the effect 
you have upon me. You are ..."
  
  They stood amid the crowds of the lobby, lost in each other's gaze.
  
  "Like a ghost?"  she suggested." A visitant from another realm?"
  
  "No, you're much too ... too real for that!"  He laughed softly." You're altogether 
vivid and warm!"
  
  They crossed the veranda together. His car was waiting, just as he'd said it would be. 
A long black saloon, he'd called it, with deep velvet seats and a roof. They would still 
feel the wind through the windows.
  
  "Wait, let me just leave word at the desk for my father, that we'll see him tonight."
  
  "I can do that for you, my lord,"  said the servant who held the door for them.
  
  "Oh, thank you, I do appreciate it,"  Alex said politely, that same generosity evinced 
for the lowest underling. As he gave the man a small gratuity, he looked him directly in 
the eye." Tonight, I shall see him at the opera-if you please."
  
  She admired the subtle grace with which he did the smallest things. She took his arm as 
they went down the steps.
  
  "And tell me,"  she said as he helped her into the front seat," about this Julie 
Stratford. What is a modem woman?"
  
  Ramsey was still arguing as the car pulled into the drive before Shepheard's.
  
  "We will do everything society expects of us,"  Elliott said." You have the rest of 
eternity to search for your lost Queen."
  
  "But what puzzles me is this,"  Ramsey insisted. He opened the door carelessly, almost 
wrenching one of the hinges." If her cousin is wanted for high crimes, how can Julie 
dance at a ball as if this thing is not happening?"
  
  "Under English law, my friend, a man is innocent until proved guilty,"  Elliott 
explained, accepting Ramsey's helping hand." And publicly we presume Henry is innocent; 
and we know nothing of these atrocities, so in private we have done our duty as citizens 
of the Crown."
  
  "Yes, you definitely should have been an adviser to a King,"  Ramsey said.
  
  "Good Lord, look at that."
  
  "What?"
  
  "Just my son driving off with a woman. At a time like this!"
  
  "Ah, but perhaps he is doing what society expects of him!"  Ramsey said contemptuously, 
leading the way up the steps.
  
  "Lord Rutterford, excuse me-your son said to tell you that he would see you tonight, at 
the opera."
  
  "Thank you,"  Elliott said, with a short ironic laugh.
  
  Elliott wanted only to sleep as he entered the sitting room of his suite. Some drunk he 
was going to be; he was already thoroughly bored with being inebriated. He wanted a clear 
head, though he understood the dangers.
  
  Ramsey helped him to a chair.
  
  He suddenly realized that they were alone. Samir had gone on to his own room; and 
Walter for the moment was nowhere about.
  
  Elliott sat there, trying to collect his strength.
  
  "And what do you do now, my lord?"  Ramsey asked. He stood in the center of the room, 
studying Elliott." You go back home to England after your precious opera ball, as if none 
of this ever happened?"
  
  "Your secret's safe. It always was. No one would believe what I've seen. And I wish 
only to forget it, though I never will."
  
  "And the lust for immortality has burnt itself out?"
  
  Elliott thought for a moment. Then he answered in unhurried fashion, rather relieved 
himself at the resignation in his voice.
  
  "Perhaps in death, I'll find what I seek, rather than what I deserve. There's always 
the chance of that."  He smiled up at Ramsey, who appeared completely surprised by the 
response." Now and then,"  Elliott continued," I picture heaven as a vast library, with 
unlimited volumes to read. And paintings and statues to examine galore. I picture it as a 
great doorway to learning. Do you think the hereafter could be like that? Rather than one 
great dull answer to all our questions?"
  
  Ramsey gave him a sad wondering smile.
  
  "A heaven of man-made things. Like our ancient Egyptian heaven."
  
  "Yes, I suppose so. A great museum. And a failure of the imagination."
  
  "I think not."
  
  "Oh, there are so many things I wanted to discuss with you, so much I wanted to know."
  
  Ramsey didn't answer him. The man just stood there, looking at him; and Elliott had the 
weirdest sense of being listened to, studied. It made him aware of how inattentive most 
human beings were in general.
  
  "But it's too late for all that."  Elliott sighed." My son Alex is the only immortality 
that matters to me now."
  
  "You're a wise man. I knew that when I first looked into your eyes. And by the way, you 
are bad at treachery. You told me where you were keeping Cleopatra when you told me she'd 
slain Henry and his mistress. It had to have been the belly dancer's house. I played out 
your game with you. I wanted to see how far you'd go with it. But you gave yourself away. 
You are not so good at such things."
  
  "Well, my brief career at them is over. Unless you want me to remain here when the 
children go home. But I don't see how a crippled, prematurely old man can help you. Do 
you?
  
  Ramsey seemed perplexed." Why weren't you afraid of her when you saw her in the 
museum?"  he asked.
  
  "I was afraid of her. I was horrified."
  
  "But you sheltered her. It couldn't have been merely for your own ends."
  
  "Ends? No. I don't think so. I found her irresistible; as I found you irresistible. It 
was the mystery. I wanted to sit-Move into it. Besides ..."
  
  "Yes."
  
  "She was ... a living thing. A being in pain."
  
  Ramsey thought about this for a moment.
  
  "You will persuade Julie to go back to London-until this is over,"  Elliott asked.
  
  "Yes, I'll do that,"  Ramsey said.
  
  He went out quietly, closing the door behind him.
  
  They walked through the City of the Dead," the place of the exalted ones,"  as they 
said in Arabic. Where the Maml1'6 Sultans had built their mausoleums; they had seen the 
fortes of Babylon; they had wandered the bazaars; now the he" l °f me afternoon wore on 
Alex, and her soul was chastened and shocked by the things she'd discovered, the long 
thread of history having connected the centuries for her from this radiant afternoon to 
the time she'd been alive.
  
  She wanted to see no more of the ancient ruins. She wanted only to be with him.
  
  "I like you, young lord,"  she said to him." You comfort me-You make me forget my pain. 
And the scores I must settle."
  
  "But what do you mean, my darling?"
  
  She was overcome again by that sense of his fragile mortal man. She laid her fingers on 
his neck. The memories rose, threatening inundation; all too similar to the black waves 
from which she'd risen, as if death were water.
  
  Was it different for each being? Had Antony gone down in black waves? Nothing separated 
her from that moment if she wanted to seize it, to see Ramses turn his back again and 
refuse to give Antony the elixir; to see herself on her knees, begging." Don't let him 
die."
  
