once been. Great Egyptian eyes, those, the same after countless centuries. Samir, his 
child.
  
  It was not that the memories weren't vivid. They were. Like yesterday, it seemed, that 
he had watched them carry the coffin of Cleopatra out of the mausoleum and down to the 
Roman cemetery by the sea. He could smell that sea again if he wanted to. He could hear 
the weeping all around him. He could feel the stones through the thin leather of his 
sandals as he'd felt it then.
  
  Beside Mark Antony she had asked to be buried; and so it had been done. He'd stood in 
the crowds, a common man, with his coarse cloak wrapped around him, listening to the 
wailing of the mourners."  Our great Queen is dead."
  
  His grief had been an agony. So why was he not weeping now? He sat in this room staring 
at her marble bust, and the pain was just beyond his reach.
  
  "Cleopatra,"  he whispered. Playfully, he envisioned her not as the woman on her 
deathbed, but as the young girt who had awakened him: Rise, Ramses the Great. A Queen of 
Egypt calls you. Come out of your deep sleep and be my counsel in this time of woe.
  
  No, he did not feel either the joy or the pain.
  
  Did this mean the capacity to suffer had been affected by the powerful elixir that 
never ceased its work in his veins? Or was it something else, that he had long suspected; 
that when he slept, he somehow knew the passage of time? Somehow even in that unconscious 
state, he travelled away from the things that had hurt him; and his dreams were only one 
indication of the reasoning that went on in darkness and in stillness. Without panic, he 
had known before the sunlight ever touched his body mat hundreds of years had passed.
  
  Perhaps he was merely so shocked by all he'd seen about him in the twentieth century 
that the memories had not attained their fall emotional force. The pain would return all 
at once and he would find himself weeping uncontrollably on the edge of madness-unable to 
embrace all the beauty that he saw.
  
  There had been a moment in the wax museum, yes, when he had seen that vulgar effigy of 
Cleopatra, and the ludicrous, expressionless Antony beside her, when he had felt 
something akin to panic. It had soothed him to return to the noisy, bustling London 
streets outside. He had heard her crying in his memory:" Ramses, Antony is dying. Give 
him the elixir! Ramses!"  It seemed a voice from somewhere outside of him, which he could 
not silence at will. It disturbed him that she had been so grossly represented. And his 
heart had been tripping like those steam hammers that broke the cement pavings of London. 
Tripping. But that was not pain.
  
  And what did it matter that the wax statue had so cheapened her beauty? His statues 
bore no resemblance to him finally, and he had stood about in the hot sun chatting with 
the workmen who made them! Nobody expected public art to have anything much to do with 
the flesh-and-blood model, that is, not until the Romans started filling their gardens 
with portraits of themselves, down to the very warts.
  
  Cleopatra had been no Roman. Cleopatra had been a Greek and an Egyptian. And the horror 
was, Cleopatra meant something to these modern people of the twentieth century which was 
altogether wrong. She had become a symbol of licentiousness, when in fact she had 
possessed a multitude of amazing talents. They had punished her for her one flaw by 
forgetting everything else.
</pre>
<!--N=5800 M=6000 pt=-->
  
  Yes, that is what had shocked him in the wax museum. Remembered, but not for what she 
was. A painted whore lying on a silken couch.
  
  Silence. His heart was thudding again. He listened. He heard the ticking of the clock.
  
  A tray of savory pastries lay before him. There was the brandy; oranges and pears on a 
china plate. He should eat and drink, for that always calmed him, just as if he'd been 
starving when he was not starving at all.
  
  And he did not want to feel the agony again, did he? Yet he was frightened. Because he 
did not want to lose his vast experience of human feeling. That would be like dying!
  
  Once again he looked at her beautiful face, rendered there in marble, more truly 
Cleopatra than that wax horror. And something deep inside threatened the strange quiet of 
his mind. He saw images without meaning. He put his hands to his head and sighed.
  
  Of course if he thought of Julie Stratford in her bed above him, his mind and heart 
would be instantly united. He laughed softly as he picked up one of the pastries-sticky 
and sweet. He devoured it. He wanted to devour Julie Stratford. Ah, this woman, this 
splendid woman; this delicate-boned modern Queen who needed no land to rule to make her 
regal. So wondrously clever and surprisingly strong. But then he had better not dwell on 
it, or he would go up and knock down her door.
  
  Picture it: crashing into her bedchamber. The poor servant wakes in the attic and 
starts screaming- So what? And Julie Stratford rises in that lace bower of hers, which he 
glimpsed earlier from the hallway, and he covers her, ripping off her scant gown, 
caressing her hot little limbs and taking her before she can protest.
  
  No. You cannot do that. Do that and you destroy the thing you desire. Julie Stratford 
was worth humility and patience, a great deal of it. He had known that when he had 
watched her from that strange numb half-awakened state, moving about this library, 
speaking to him in his coffin, never guessing that he could hear.
  
  Julie Stratford had become a great mystery of body and soul and will.
  
  He took another deep drink of the brandy. Delicious. Another long draw on the cigar. He 
sliced through the orange with the knife and picked it up and ate the sweet, wet meat of 
it.
  
  The cigar filled the room with a perfume finer than any incense. Turkish tobacco, Julie 
had told him. He had not known what that meant then, but he knew now. Ripping through a 
little book called History of the World, he had read all about the Turks and their 
conquests. That was how he should start, really, with the little books full of 
generalities and summations:" Within a century and a half all of Europe had fallen to the 
barbarian hordes."  The fine distinctions would come later, as he sought out the great 
wealth of printed material in all languages. Just thinking of it made him smile.
  
  The gramophone stopped. He rose, went to the machine and found another black disk for 
it to play. This one had the curious title" Only a Bird in a Gilded Cage."  For some 
reason that made him think of Julie again and wanting to crush her with kisses. He set 
the disk on the turntable and cranked the handle. A small fragile woman's voice began to 
warble. He laughed. He refilled his brandy and moved a little with the music, a slow 
dance without lifting his feet.
  
  But it was time to do some work. The darkness was dissolving outside the windows. The 
first faint grey light of the dawn was coming. He could hear, even over the dull roar of 
the city around him, the faraway song of birds.
  
  He went into the dark cold kitchen of the house, found" a glass,"  as they called them, 
these beautiful objects, and filled it with water from the miraculous little copper tap.
  
  Then he went back into the library and studied the long row of alabaster jars under the 
mirror. All appeared unharmed. No cracks anywhere. Nothing missing. And there was his 
little burner, all ready for him, and the empty glass vials. All he needed was a little 
oil. Or one of these candles, burnt down now to a convenient stub.
  
  Moving aside his scrolls rather carelessly, he set up the little burner properly. He 
slipped the candle into place, and blew out the flame.
  
  Then he studied the jars again. His hand chose before his mind chose. And when he 
studied the crushed white powder he knew that his hand had been right.
  
  Oh, if only Henry Stratford had dipped his spoon into this instead of the other! What a 
great shock he would have had. His uncle, a roaring lion, might have torn off his head.
  
  It occurred to him suddenly that though the poisons might have frightened the people of 
his time, they would be no deterrent to the scientists of his age. A person with a spark 
of belief could easily have taken all these jars out of here, fed their contents slowly 
to animal victims, until he discovered the elixir. It would be simple enough.
  
  As it stood now, of course, only Samir Ibrahaim and Julie Stratford knew of the elixir. 
And they would never divulge the secret to anyone. But Lawrence Stratford had partially 
translated the story. And his notebook was lying about somewhere- Ramses had been unable 
to find it-for anyone to read. Then of course there were the scrolls.
  
  Whatever the case, this situation could not continue forever. He must carry the elixir 
on his person. And of course there was always the chance that the batch had lost its 
potency. Two thousand years almost, the powder had lain in the jar.
  
  In that time, wine would have turned to vinegar, or some utterly undrinkable fluid. 
Flour would have turned into something no more edible than sand.
  
  His hand trembled now as he poured all of the coarse granules into the metal dish of 
the burner. He tapped the jar to make sure that not so much as a speck remained. Then he 
mixed it in the dish gently with his finger, and added a liberal amount of water from the 
glass.
  
  Now he relighted the candle. As it bubbled, he gathered the glass vials and laid them 
out-the ones that had been on display here on the table, and two others that had remained 
concealed or overlooked in an ebony box.
  
  Four large vials with silver caps.
  
  Within seconds the change had taken place. The raw ingredients, already quite potent in 
their own right, had been changed into a bubbling liquid, full of vague phosphorescent 
light. How ominous it looked, like something that might bum the skin off the mouth of 
anyone who tried to drink it! But it did not do that. It had not done it when eons ago, 
he had drunk down the full cup without hesitation, ready to suffer to be immortal! There 
had been no pain at all. He smiled. No pain at all.
  
  Carefully he lifted the dish. He poured the steaming elixir into one vial after another 
until all four glass containers were full. Then he waited until the dish was cooled and 
he licked it clean, for that was the only safe thing to do. Then he capped the
  
  vials. And he took the candle and made the wax drip around these caps to seal them, all 
save one.
  
  Three of the vials, he placed in the pocket of his robe. The fourth vial, the one which 
he had failed to seal, he carried with him into the conservatory. He stood there in the 
darkness, holding it, peering at the ferns and vines that crowded the room.
  
  The glass walls were losing their dark opacity. He could still see his own reflection 
clearly, a tall figure in a wine-dark garment, with a warm room behind him-but the pale 
objects of the outside world were coming visible too.
  
  He approached the potted fern nearest him; a thing of great airy dark-green fronds. He 
poured a bit of the elixir into the moist soil. Then he turned to the bougainvillea, 
whose fragile red blossoms were few and far between amid the dark foliage. He poured many 
droplets of the elixir into this pot as well.
  
  There was a faint stirring; a crackling sound. To use any more would be madness. Yet he 
moved from pot to pot, pouring but a few drops in each. Finally half the vial remained. 
And he had done enough harm, had he not? If the magic no longer worked, he would know 
within a few moments. He looked to the glass ceiling. The first blush of the sun was 
there. The god Ra sending the first warm rays.
  
  The leaves of the ferns rustled, lengthened; tender shoots unfurled. The bougainvillea 
swelled and trembled on its trellis, tiny tendrils shooting up along the wrought-iron 
grillwork, little blossoms opening suddenly, blood red as wounds. The entire glass room 
was alive with accelerated growth. He closed his eyes, listening to that sound. A dark 
deep shudder passed through him.
  
  How could he have ever believed that the elixir had lost its effectiveness? It was as 
strong as ever it had been. One powerful draught had rendered him immortal forever. Why 
did he think the substance itself, once created, would be any less immortal than he?
  
  He put the vial in his pocket. He unlatched the rear door of the house and went out 
into the murky wet dawn.
  
  The pain in Henry's head was so bad he could not even see the two detectives clearly. 
He had been dreaming of that thing, that mummy, when they awakened him. In cold terror, 
he had taken his gun, cocked it, slipped it into his pocket and gone to the door. Now if 
they meant to search him ...
  
  "Everyone knew Tommy Sharpies!"  he said, fury masking his fear." Everyone owed him 
money. For this you wake me at the crack of dawn?"
  
  He squinted stupidly at the one called Gallon, who now held up that damned Cleopatra 
coin! How the hell could he have been so stupid? To go off and leave that coin in 
Sharples's pocket. But for the love of hell, he had not planned to cut down Sharpies! How 
could he be expected to think of things like this!
  
  "Ever see this before, sir?"
  
  Be calm. There is not a scintilla of evidence to connect you to anything. Let 
indignation serve you as well as it always has.
  
  "Why, that's from my uncle's collection. The Ramses collection. How did you get it? It 
ought to be under lock and key."
  
  "The question is,"  said the one called Trent," how did Mr. Sharpies get it? And what 
was he doing with it on his person when he was killed?"
  
  Henry ran his hands back through his hair. If only the pain would stop. If only he 
could excuse himself for a minute, get a good stiff drink and have some time to think.
  
  "Reginald Ramsey!"  he said, looking Trent in the eye." That's the fellow's name, 
wasn't it? That Egyptologist! The one staying with my cousin. Good God, what's going on 
in that house!"
  
  "Mr. Ramsey?"
  
  "You have questioned him, haven't you? Where did he come from, that man?"  His face 
coloured as the two men stared at him in silence." Do I have to do your job for you? 
Where the devil did the bastard come from? And what's he doing with all that treasure in 
my cousin's house?"
  
  For an hour Ramses walked. The morning was cold and dreary. The great imposing houses 
of Mayfair gave way to the dingy tenements of the poor. He roamed narrow unpaved streets, 
like the alleyways of an ancient city-Jericho, or Rome. Tracks of the horse carts here, 
and the reek of damp manure.
  
  Now and then some poor passerby would stare at him. Surely he should not be dressed in 
this long satin robe. But that did not matter. He was Ramses the Wanderer again. Ramses 
the Damned only passing through this time. The elixir still had its potency. And the 
science of this time was no more ready for it than the science of any other.
  
  Look at this suffering, these beggars sleeping in the alleyway.
  
</pre>
<!--N=6000 M=6200 pt=-->
  Smell the filth of that house, as if the door is a mouth that spews its foul breath 
while gasping for clean air.
  
  A beggar man approached him." Spare a sixpence, sir, I haven't eaten in two days. 
Please, sir."
  
  Ramses walked on by, his slippers damp and dirty from the puddles in which he had 
stepped.
  
  And now comes a young woman, look at her; listen to the cough rattling deep from her 
chest.
  
  "Want to have a good time, sir? I have a nice warm room, sir."
  
  Oh, yes, he did want her services, so very much that he could feel himself hardening 
immediately. And the fever made her all the more fetching; she thrust out her small bosom 
gracefully as she forced a smile despite her pain.
  
  "Not now, my fair one,"  he whispered.
  
  It seemed the street, if it was in fact a street, had carried him into a great 
wilderness of ruins. Burnt-out buildings reeking of the smoke, with windows empty of 
drapery or glass.
  
  Even here the poor camped in alcoves and shallow doorways. A baby cried desperately. 
The song of the hungry.
  
  He walked on. He could hear the city coming alive around him; not the human voices; 
those he'd heard all along. It was the machines which awoke now as the dirty grey sky 
grew brighter and became almost silver overhead. From somewhere very far away, he heard a 
deep-throated train whistle. He stopped. He could feel the dull vibration of the great 
iron monster even here through the damp earth. What a beguiling rhythm it had, those 
wheels rolling on and on over the iron tracks.
  
  Suddenly a spasm of shrill noise threw him into a panic. He turned in time to see an 
open motor car hurtling towards him, a young man bouncing on the high seat. He fell back 
against the stone wall behind him as the thing rattled and bumped over the ruts in the 
mud.
  
  He was shaken, angry. A rare moment in which he felt helpless, exposed.
  
  Dazed, he realized he was looking at a grey dove lying dead in the street. One of those 
fat dull grey birds which he saw everywhere in London, nesting on the windowsills and on 
the rooftops; this one had been struck by the motor car, and part of its wing had been 
crushed under the wheels.
  
  The wind stirred it now, giving it a false semblance of life.
  
  Suddenly a memory, one of the oldest and most vivid, caught him off guard, ripping him 
from the present, cruelly, and planting him squarely in another time and place.
  
  He stood in the cave of the Hittite priestess. In his battle garb, his hand on the hilt 
of his bronze sword, he stood looking up at the white doves circling in the sunlight 
under the high grate.
  
  "They're immortal?"  he asked her. He spoke in the crude, guttural Hittite tongue.
  
  She had laughed madly." They eat, but they do not need to eat. They drink, but they do 
not need to drink. It is the sun that keeps them strong. Take it away and they sleep, but 
they do not die, my King."
  
  He had stared at her face, so old, shrunken with its deep wrinkles. The laughter had 
angered him.
  
  "Where is the elixir!"  he had demanded.
  
  "You think it is a great thing?"  How her eyes had gleamed as she approached him, 
taunting him." And what if all the world were filled with those who could not die? And 
their children? And their children's children? This cave harbours a horrid secret, I tell 
you. The secret of the end of the world itself, I tell you!"
  
  He had drawn his sword." Give it to me!"  he had roared.
  
  She had not been frightened; she had only smiled.
  
  "What if it kills you, my rash Egyptian? No human being has ever drunk it. No man, 
woman or child."
  
  But he had already seen the altar, seen the cup of white liquid. He had seen the tablet 
behind it covered with tiny wedgelike letters.
  
  He stepped up to the altar. He read the words. Could this possibly be the formula of 
the elixir of life? Common ingredients which he himself could have gathered from the 
fields and riverbanks of his native land? Half believing, he committed it to memory, 
never dreaming that he would never forget.
  
  And the liquid, ye gods, look at it. With both hands he lifted the cup and drank it 
down. Somewhere for off he heard her laughing and laughing; it echoed through the endless 
chambers of the cave.
  
  And then he'd turned, wiping his lip with the back of his hand, his eyes wide as the 
shock coursed through him, his face throbbing, his body hardening as if he were in his 
chariot before the battlefield, on the verge of raising his sword and giving the cry. The 
priestess had taken a step backwards. What had she seen? His hair stirring, writhing, as 
if lifted by a swift breeze; the grey hairs falling away as the strong brown hair 
replaced them; his black eyes fading, turning the colour of sapphires-the stunning 
transformation that he would verify later when he held up the mirror.
  
  "Well, we shall see, shan't we?"  he had cried, his heart pumping fiercely, his muscles 
tingling. Ah, how light and powerful he'd felt. He could have taken flight." Do I live or 
die, priestess?"
  
  Stunned, he stared at the London street before him. As if it were only hours ago! The 
moment whole and entire, and he could still hear the flapping of those wings against the 
grate. Seven hundred years had passed between that moment and the night he'd entered the 
tomb for his first long sleep. And two thousand since he'd been awakened, only to go to 
the grave within a few years again.
  
  And now this is London; this is the twentieth century. Suddenly he was trembling 
violently. Again, the damp smoky wind stirred the feathers of the grey dove that lay dead 
in the street. He walked forward through the sludge and knelt down beside the bird and 
scooped it up in his hands. Ah, fragile thing. So full of life one moment, and now no 
more than refuse, though the white down fluttered on its warm, narrow little chest.
  
  Oh, how the chill wind hurt him. How the sight of the dead thing pierced his heart.
  
  Holding it in his right hand, he drew out the half-full vial of the elixir with his 
left. He pushed open the hinged cap with his thumb and poured the shimmering liquid over 
the dead creature, forcing one heavy drop after another into its open beak.
  
  Not a second passed before the thing quickened. The tiny round eyes opened. The bird 
struggled to right itself, its wings flapping violently. He let it go, and up it went, 
circling as it soared beneath the heavy leaden sky.
  
  He watched until it had disappeared from sight. Immortal now. To fly forever.
  
  And another memory came, silent and swift as an assassin. The mausoleum; the marble 
halls, the pillars, and the gaunt figure of Cleopatra running beside him as he walked on, 
faster and faster, away from the dead body of Mark Antony lying on the gilded couch.
  
  "You can bring him back!"  she screamed." You know you can. It's not too late. Ramses. 
Give it to us both, Mark Antony and me! Ramses, don't turn away from me."  Her long nails 
had scratched at his arm.
  
  In a rage he'd turned, slapped her, knocked her backwards. Astonished, she'd fallen, 
then crumpled into sobs. How frail she'd been, almost haggard, with the dark circles 
beneath her eyes.
  
  The bird was gone over the London rooftops. The sun grew brighter, a shocking white 
light behind the rolling clouds.
  
  His vision blurred; his heart was pounding thickly in his chest. He was weeping, 
weeping helplessly. Ye gods, what had made him think the pain would not come?
  
  He'd wakened after centuries in a great luxurious numbness; and now that numbness was 
thawing, and the heat of his love and his grief would soon be wholly his once more. This 
was but the first taste of suffering, and what was the blessing, that he was alive, heart 
and soul, again?
  
  He stared at the vial in his hand. He was tempted to crush it, and let its contents 
drip from his fingers into this foul and rutted street. Take the other vials out 
someplace far away from London where the grass grew high surely, and only the wild 
flowers would witness; and there pour all the liquid into the field.
  
  But what were these vain fancies? He knew how to make it. He had memorized those words 
off that tablet. He could not destroy what was forever engraved on his own mind.
  
  Samir left the cab and walked the remaining fifty yards to his destination, hands 
shoved in his pockets, collar turned up against the driving wind. Reaching the house on 
the corner, he went up the stone steps and knocked on the peeling door.
  
  A woman draped all in black wool opened the door a crack, then admitted him. Quietly he 
entered a cluttered room where two Egyptians sat smoking and reading the morning papers, 
the shelves and tables around them covered with Egyptian goods. A papyrus and a 
magnifying glass lay to one side on the table.
  
  Samir glanced at the papyrus. Nothing of importance. He glanced at a long, yellow 
mummy, its wrappings still quite well preserved, lying carelessly, it seemed, on a nearby 
shelf.
  
  "Ah, Samir, don't trouble yourself,"  said the tallest of the two men, whose name was 
Abdel." Nothing but fakes on the market. Zaki's work, as you know. Except for that 
fellow..."  The man pointed to the mummy." He's real enough, but not worth your time."
  
  Nevertheless Samir took a closer look at the mummy.
  
  "The dregs of a private collection,"  Abdel said." Not in your class."
  
  Samir nodded, then turned back to Abdel.
  
  "I did hear, however, that some rare Cleopatra coins have surfaced,"  Abdel said, a bit 
playfully." Ah, if I could get my hands on one of those."
  
  "I need a passport, Abdel,"  Samir said." Citizenship papers. I need them fast."
  
  Abdel did not immediately answer. He watched with interest as Samir reached into his 
pocket.
  
  "And money. I need that too."
  
  Samir held up the glittering Cleopatra coin.
  
  Abdel reached for it before he was out of his chair. Samir watched him without 
expression as he examined it.
  
  "Discretion, my friend,"  Samir said." Speed and discretion. Let us discuss the 
details."
  
  Oscar was back. Now that might be a problem, Julie thought, but only if Rita said 
something foolish, but then Oscar never listened to Rita. He thought Rita was a fool.
</pre>
<!--N=6200 M=6400 pt=-->
  
  As Julie came down the stairs, she found her butler just closing the front door. He had 
a bouquet of roses in his arms. He gave her the letter that had come with them.
  
  "Just arrived, miss,"  he said.
  
  "Yes, I know."
  
  With relief she saw it was from Elliott, not Alex, and hastily she read the letter as 
Oscar waited.
  
  "Call the Earl of Rutherford, Oscar. Tell him I cannot possibly come tonight. And I 
shall call later myself to explain."
  
  He was about to go when she took one of the roses out of the bouquet." Put them in the 
dining room, Oscar,"  she said. She sampled the fragrance, then felt the soft petals with 
her finger. What was she going to do about Alex? Surely it was too soon to do anything, 
but every day only made matters worse.
  
  Ramses. Where was he? That was really the first order of business. The door of her 
father's room had been open, the bed untouched.
  
  She hurried back through the hall to the conservatory. Even before she reached the 
door, she saw the magnificent bougainvillea laden with red blossoms.
  
  And to think that yesterday she hadn't noticed these beautiful blooms. And look at the 
ferns, magnificent. And the lilies that had opened early in their pots throughout the 
room.
  
  "What a miracle,"  she said.
  
  She saw Ramses seated in a wicker chair, watching her. And already dressed splendidly 
for the day's adventures. And this time he'd made no mistakes. How ruddy and beautiful he 
looked in the streaming sunlight; his hair fuller, richer, and his great blue eyes filled 
with a sombre melancholy as he looked at her, that is, before he brightened completely 
and gave her that irresistible smile.
  
  For one moment a shock of fear passed through her. He seemed on the edge of tears. He 
rose from the chair and came towards her and lightly touched her face with his fingers.
  
  "What a miracle you are!"  he said.
  
  A silence fell gently between them. She wanted to reach up and throw her arms about his 
neck. She merely looked at him, feeling his closeness, then she reached out and touched 
his face.
  
  She should draw back, she knew it. But he surprised her. He drew back and then, kissing 
her almost reverently on the forehead, he said:
  
  "I want to go to Egypt, Julie. Sooner or later, I shall have to go to Egypt. Let it 
happen now."
  
  How weary and raw he sounded. All the gentleness that had been in him yesterday was 
mingled now with sadness. His eyes seemed darker and larger. And she'd been right-he was 
near to weeping, and it sent the fear again to her soul.
  
  God, how great must be his capacity for suffering.
  
  "Of course,"  she said." We'll go to Egypt, you and I together. ..."
  
  "Ah, that was my hope,"  he said." Julie, this age can never belong to me until I say 
farewell to Egypt, for Egypt is my past."
  
  "I understand."
  
  "I want the future!"  he said, his voice dropping to a whisper." I want ..."  He 
stopped, clearly unable to go on, Flustered, he turned away from her. He reached into his 
pocket and removed a handful of golden coins.
  
  "Can we buy a ship with this, Julie, that will take us across the sea?"
  
  "Leave everything to me,"  she said." We are going. Now sit down, eat your breakfast. I 
know how hungry you are. You don't have to tell me."
  
  He laughed in spite of himself.
  
  "And I shall see to things at once."
  
  She went into the kitchen. Oscar was just setting the breakfast tray for them. The room 
was full of the good smells of coffee, and cinnamon, and freshly baked muffins.
  
  "Oscar, telephone Thomas Cook for me immediately. Book a passage for Mr. Ramsey and me 
to Alexandria. See if you can arrange for it straight away. We'll leave today if 
possible. Do hurry, and leave these things to me."
  
  How amazed he was.
  
  "But, Miss Julie, what about-"
  
  "Do it, Oscar. Make the calls at once. Hurry, There's no time to lose."
  
  Carrying the heavy tray, she came back out into the sunlight, and once more the great 
lovely flowers startled her. The purple orchids and the yellow daisies, equally beautiful.
  
  "Why, look at it,"  she whispered." And to think I scarcely noticed it before. 
Everything in bloom. Oh, so lovely..."
  
  He stood by the back door, watching her with that same sad and beautiful expression." 
Yes, very lovely,"  he said.
  
  THE HOUSE was in an uproar. Rita had all but lost her mind at the idea that she was 
going to Egypt. Oscar, remaining to keep the house, had been helping the cabbies get the 
trunks down the stairs.
  
  Randolph and Alex were arguing furiously with Julie that she must not make this trip.
  
  And the enigmatic Mr. Reginald Ramsey sat at the wicker table in the conservatory 
devouring an enormous meal, with glass after glass to wash it down. All the while he read 
the newspapers, two of them at a time, if Elliott was not mistaken. And now and then he 
lifted a book from the pile on the floor, and rushed through the pages as if searching 
for some dreadfully important item, and once finding it, dropped the book with a careless 
thud.
  
  Elliott sat in Lawrence's chair in the Egyptian room watching all of this silently; 
glancing now and then to Julie in the drawing room; and then to Mr. Ramsey, who surely 
knew that he was being observed but did not seem to care.
  
  The other silent and solitary watcher was Samir Ibrahaim, who stood to the very back of 
the conservatory, somewhat lost in the remarkable profusion of spring foliage, staring 
past the indifferent Mr. Ramsey into the shadowy front rooms.
  
  Julie's call to Elliott had come over three hours ago. He had gone into action 
immediately. And he knew more or less what was going to happen now, as the little drama 
in the drawing room played itself out.
  
  "But you simply cannot go off to Egypt with a man you know nothing about,"  Randolph 
said, trying to keep his voice down." You can't take such a trip without a proper 
chaperon."
  
  "Julie, I won't have it,"  Alex said, pale with exasperation." I won't have you do this 
alone."
  
  "Now, stop, both of you,"  Julie responded." I'm a grown woman. I'm going. And I can 
take care of myself. Besides, I'll have Rita with me all the time. And Samir, Father's 
closest friend. I couldn't have a better protector than Samir."
  
  "Julie, neither of them is a proper companion and you know this. This is nothing short 
of scandalous."
  
  "Uncle Randolph, the boat leaves at four o'clock. We must be leaving here now. Let's 
get to the business at hand, shall we? I've had a power of attorney prepared, so that you 
can run Stratford Shipping with a free hand."
  
  Silence. So at last we get to the heart of the matter, Elliott thought coolly. He could 
hear Randolph slowly clearing his throat.
  
  "Well, I suppose mat's necessary, my dear,"  he answered weakly.
  
  Alex tried to interrupt, but Julie overrode him politely. Were there any other papers 
Randolph wanted her to sign? He could send them on to Alexandria immediately. She'd sign 
them and send them home from there.
  
  Satisfied that Julie would be leaving on schedule, Elliott rose and walked casually out 
into the conservatory.
  
  Ramsey went on eating superhuman amounts of food, quite undeterred. He now took one of 
three different lighted cigars and drew on it, then went back to his pudding, and his 
roast beef, and his buttered bread. It was a history of modern Egypt that lay open before 
him, the chapter entitled" The Mamluke Massacre."  The man appeared to be scanning, so 
rapidly did his finger move down the page.
  
  Suddenly Elliott realized he was surrounded by foliage. He was almost startled by the 
size of the fern beside him, and the immense heavy bougainvillea brushing his shoulder, 
as it partially blocked the door. Good Lord, what had happened here? Lilies everywhere he 
looked, and the daisies exploding out of their pots, and the ivy gone wild over the 
entire roof.
  
  Concealing his shock, though from whom he wasn't certain, since neither Ramsey nor 
Samir took official note of him, he tore off one of the blue-and- white morning glories 
blooming just over his head.
  
  He stared at the perfect trumpet-shaped blossom. What sweetness. Then slowly he looked 
up to meet Ramsey's gaze.
  
  Samir roused himself suddenly from his apparent state of meditation.
  
  "Lord Rutherford, allow me ...*' Then he stopped as if at a complete loss for words.
  
  Ramsey rose to his feet, wiping his fingers carefully on his linen napkin.
  
  Absently the Earl slipped the morning glory in his pocket, and then extended his hand.
  
  "Reginald Ramsey,"  he said," a great pleasure. I'm an old friend of the Stratford 
family. Something of an Egyptologist myself. It is my son, Alex, who is engaged to be 
married to Julie. Perhaps you know."
  
  The man hadn't known. Or he didn't understand. A faint flush came to his cheeks.
  
  "Married to Julie?"  he said in a half whisper. And then, with forced gaiety:" He is a 
fortunate man, your son."
  
  The Earl eyed the table laden with food, because he couldn't stop himself, and the 
blossoms all but crowding out the sun above. He looked placidly at the man before him, 
who was certainly one of the handsomest creatures he'd ever seen. Downright beautiful, 
when you thought of it. The sort of large compassionate blue eyes that drive women mad. 
Add the ready smile and one has a near-fatal combination.
  
  But the silence was becoming uncomfortable.
  
  "Ah, the diary,"  Elliott said. He reached into his coat. Samir recognized it 
</pre>
<!--N=6400 M=6600 pt=-->
immediately, that was plain.
  
  "This diary,"  Elliott said," it belonged to Lawrence. It has valuable information on 
Ramses' tomb. Notes on a papyrus left by the man, it seems. I picked it up the other 
night. I must put it back."
  
  There was a sudden coldness in Ramsey's face.
  
  Elliott turned, leaning on his cane, and took a few painful steps toward Lawrence's 
desk.
  
  Ramsey came along with him.
  
  "The pain in your joints,"  Ramsey asked," have you a modem ... a medicine for it? 
There was an old Egyptian remedy. The willow bark. One had to boil it."
  
  " Yes,"  Elliott answered, looking up again into those distracting blue eyes." In this 
day and age we call it aspirin, don't we?"  He smiled. This was going infinitely better 
than he had ever anticipated. He hoped the colour wasn't dancing hi his face as it was in 
Ramsey's." Where have you been all these years that you haven't heard of aspirin, my dear 
man? We produce it synthetically, and of course you are familiar with that word."
  
  Ramsey's composure was unbroken, though he narrowed his eyes just a little as if he 
wanted the Earl to realize he was being appraised.
  
  "I'm not a scientific man, Lord Rutherford,"  he answered." I'm more an observer, a 
philosopher. So you call it aspirin. I am pleased to know it. Maybe I have spent too much 
of my time in distant lands."  He raised his eyebrows almost playfully.
  
  "Of course the ancient Egyptians had more potent medicines than willow bark, didn't 
they?"  Elliott pushed it. He looked at the row of alabaster jars on the table across the 
room." Potent medicines-elixirs, so to speak-which could cure more potent ailments than 
the pain I suffer in my bones."
  
  "Potent medicines have their price,"  Ramses replied calmly." Or shall I say, their 
dangers. But what an unusual man you are, Lord Rutherford. Surely you don't believe what 
you read in the notebook of your friend Lawrence."
  
  "Oh, but I do believe it. Because, you see, I am not a scientific man either. Perhaps, 
we are both philosophers, you and I. And I fancy myself something of a poet, because so 
much of my wandering has been in my dreams alone."
  
  The two men looked at each other in silence for a moment.
  
  "A poet,"  Ramsey repeated, eyes moving over Elliott almost rudely to take his 
measure." I understand you. But you do say most unusual things."
  
  Elliott tried to hold steady. He could feel the sweat breaking out under his shirt. The 
man's face was so unexpectedly open, and almost inviting.
  
  "I should like to know you,"  Elliott confessed suddenly." I...1 should like to ... 
learn from you."  He hesitated. The blue eyes fixed him in silence again." Perhaps in 
Cairo or Alexandria we should have some time to talk to one another. Perhaps even on 
shipboard, we might become acquainted."
  
  "You are going to Egypt?"  Ramsey asked, cocking his head.
  
  "Yes."  Politely he moved past Ramsey, and into the drawing
  
  room. He stood beside Julie, who had just signed another bank draft for her uncle, 
which she placed now in his hands.
  
  "Yes,"  Elliott said, turning back to Ramsey and speaking loudly enough for the others 
to hear him." Alex and I are both going. I booked passage on the same ship, as soon as 
Julie called. We wouldn't dream of letting her go alone, would we, Alex?"
  
  "Elliott, I told you no,"  Julie said.
  
  "Father, I didn't realize ..."
  
  "Yes, my dear,"  Elliott said to Julie," but I couldn't take no for an answer. Besides, 
this may be the last time I see Egypt. And Alex has never been there. Surely you won't 
deny us the pleasure. Is there any reason why we should not all go?"
  
  "Yes, I suppose I should see it,"  Alex said, by this time thoroughly confused.
  
  "Well, your trunk's packed and on its way,"  Elliott said." Come on, now, or we're all 
going to miss the boat, so to speak."
  
  Julie was staring at him in a silent fury.
  
  Ramsey gave a soft laugh behind him.
  
  "So we all go to Egypt,"  he said." I find this most interesting. We shall talk on 
board, Lord Rutherford, as you have said."
  
  Randolph looked up after tucking the power of attorney into his coat.
  
  "Well, that solves everything, doesn't it? Have a pleasant journey, my darling."  He 
kissed his niece tenderly on the cheek.
  
  The dream again, but he couldn't wake up. He turned over in Daisy's bed, into the 
scratchy lace pillow with its cloying perfume." Just a dream,"  he murmured," have to 
stop it."  But he saw the mummy coming towards him, the long strips of darkened linen 
trailing from its shuffling feet. He felt the fingers lock on his throat.
  
  He tried to scream, but he couldn't. He was suffocated, the smell of the filthy 
cerements choking him.
  
  He turned over, thrashing at the bedcovers and suddenly striking out with his fist, 
only to feel fingers locked on it tightly.
  
  When he opened his eyes, he saw his father's face.
  
  "Oh, God,"  he whispered. He fell back on the pillow. The dream locked around him again 
for an instant, but he shuddered and stared again at his father standing over the bed.
  
  "Father,"  he moaned." What are you doing here?"
  
  "I might ask you that question. Get out of that bed and get dressed. Your trunk's 
waiting downstairs, along with a cab to take you to the P and O docks. You're going to 
Egypt."
  
  "The hell I am!"  What was this, another stage of the nightmare?
  
  His father removed his hat and took the bedside chair. When Henry reached for his cigar 
and matches, his father knocked them out of his hand.
  
  "Damn you,"  Henry whispered.
  
  "Now you listen to me. I have things in hand again and I intend to keep it that way. 
Your cousin Julie and her mysterious Egyptian friend are setting out for Alexandria this 
afternoon, and Elliott and Alex are going with them. Now you will be on that ship, too, 
do you understand? You are Julie's cousin, and therefore the only proper companion. And 
you will see that things remain seemly, that nothing intervenes to prevent Julie's 
eventual marriage to Alex Savarell. And you will see ... you will see that this man, 
whoever he is, does not hurt my brother's only child."
  
  "That man! You're mad if you think I'll-"
  
  "And you are disinherited and penniless if you don't!"  Randolph lowered his voice as 
he leaned forward." I mean this, Henry. All your life I've given you everything you ever 
wanted. But if you don't toe the line now, and see this thing to the bloody end, I shall 
remove you from the board of Stratford Shipping. I shall terminate your salary and your 
personal income. Now you will be on that ship. And you will keep an eye on your cousin 
and see she doesn't elope with that revoltingly handsome Egyptian! And you will keep me 
posted as to everything that is going on."
  
  Randolph removed a slim white envelope from his breast pocket. He laid it on the 
bedside table. There was a thick wad of money in the envelope. Henry could see that. His 
father rose to go.
  
  "And don't wire me from Cairo that you're broke. Stay away from the gaming tables and 
the belly dancers. I shall expect a letter or a telegram within a week's time."
  
  Hancock was beside himself.
  
  "Left for Egypt!"  he sputtered into the telephone." But the whole collection is still 
there in that house! How could she do this!"
  
  He motioned for silence to the clerk who meant to disturb him. Then he slammed down the 
black receiver in its hook." Sir, the newspapermen are here again, about the mummy." "Oh, 
damn the mummy. That woman's gone off and left that treasure locked up in her living 
room, as if it were a collection of dolls!"
  
  Elliott stood beside Julie and Ramsey watching from the high railing as Alex kissed his 
mother at the foot of the gangplank far below.
  
  "But I'm not here to cluck over you like a mother hen,"  Elliott said to Julie. Alex 
embraced his mother again and then hurried to board." I only want to be close at hand if 
you need me. Please don't be so distressed."
  
  Lord, he meant it. It hurt him to see the look on her face.
  
  "But Henry, why on earth has Henry come along? I don't want Henry with us."
  
  Henry had boarded only moments before without a civil word to anyone, looking as pale 
