kissed her hard, yet tenderly, on the mouth.
  
  She heard Samir's urgent whisper." Sire, you are in danger. They are searching for you 
everywhere."
  
  But she couldn't release him. In the graceful robes, he looked more than ever 
otherworldly. The pure precious love she felt for him was sharpened to the point of pain.
  
  "Do you know what's happened?"  she whispered." A woman in the museum was murdered and 
they are accusing you of the crime."
  
  "I know, my dearest,"  he said softly." The death is on my head. And worse horrors than 
that."
  
  She stared at him, trying to accept his words. Then the tears rose once again, and she 
covered her face with her hands.
  
  She sat on the bed, staring stupidly at him. Did she understand when he told her the 
dress was a very fine dress? She mimicked the words of the gramophone in perfect 
English." I should like a little sugar in my coffee. I should like a bit of lemon in my 
tea."  Then she fell silent again.
  
  She let him button the pearl buttons; she stared down in amazement as he tied the sash 
of the pink skirt. She gave an evil little laugh and lifted her leg against the heavy 
gores of the skirt.
  
  "Pretty, pretty,"  she said. He had taught her that much hi English." Pretty dress."
  
  She brushed past him suddenly and picked up a magazine from the dressing table and 
looked at the pictures of the women. Then in Latin, she asked again, What is this place?
  
  "Egypt,"  he told her. He had told her over and over. Then would come the blank look, 
then the look of pain.
  
  Timidly he lifted the brush, and brought it down through her hair. Lovely, fine hair. 
Hair so black there were feint glints of blue in it. She sighed, lifted her shoulders; 
she loved him brushing it. A low laugh came from her lips.
  
  "Very good, Lord Rutherford,"  she said in English. She arched her back and moved her 
limbs languidly, a cat stretching, her hands exquisitely graceful as she held them poised 
in the air.
  
  "Bella Regina Cleopatra,"  he sighed. Was it safe now to leave her? Could he make her 
understand? Perhaps if Malenka stood outside in the street before the bolted door until 
he came back.
  
  "I must go now, Your Majesty. I must get more of the medicine if I can."
  
  She turned, stared at him blankly. She didn't know what he was talking about! Was it 
possible she could not even remember what had happened moments before? She was trying to 
remember.
  
  "From Ramses,"  he said.
  
  There was a spark in her eye, then a deep shadow over her face. She whispered 
something, but he didn't hear it." Kind Lord Rutherford,"  she said.
  
  He pulled firmly, on the hairbrush. Her hair was now a great soft drift of rippling 
waves.
  
  The strangest light had come into her expression; her mouth was stack; her cheeks 
flushed.
  
  She turned and stroked his face. She said something quickly in Latin that meant he 
possessed an older man's knowledge and a young man's mouth.
  
  He puzzled over it, trying to think as she looked into his eyes. It seemed his own 
awareness of things drifted in and out; one moment she was this deeply afflicted creature 
he must care for;
  
  the next the great Cleopatra, and the full shock of it struck him again.
  
  Luscious, this woman; the seducer of Caesar. She drew closer to him. It seemed the 
shrewdness had returned. Then her arm went up around his neck. Her fingers stroked his 
hair.
  
  Warm her flesh. Dear God, the same flesh that had lain rotted and black beneath that 
dirty glass, thick and impenetrable as tar, that mass.
  
  But these eyes, these deep hazel eyes with the tiny flecks of yellow in the pupils, 
impossible that they had sprung alive again from the dark filth. The filth of death... 
Her lips touched his suddenly. Her mouth opened against his and he felt her tongue 
sliding between his teeth.
  
  Instantly, his sex stirred. But this was madness. He was incapable. His heart, the pain 
in his bones, he could not possibly ... She pushed her breasts against him. Through the 
cloth he felt their throbbing heat. The lace, the pearl buttons; they only made her seem 
all the more deliciously savage.
  
  His vision blurred, he saw the naked bones of her fingers as she reached to force his 
hair back oft"  his forehead, as her kiss became more insistent and her tongue plunged 
deep into his mouth.
  
  Cleopatra, the lover of Caesar, of Antony, and of Ramses the Damned. He closed his arms 
around her waist. She went back on the lace pillows, pulling him down on top of her.
  
  He groaned aloud, his mouth gnawing at her. God, to take her. His hand gathered up the 
silk skirts and plunged between her legs. Moist, hot hair mere, moist lips.
  
  "Good, Lord Rutherford,"  she said in Latin. Her hips knocked against him, against his 
sex bulging and ready to be free.
  
  He opened the few buttons quickly. How many years had it been since the thing was done 
in such haste? But there was no question now of what was meant to happen.
  
  "Ah, take me, Lord Rutherford!"  came her hissing whisper." Plunge your dagger into my 
soul!"
  
  And this is how I die. Not from the horrors I've beheld. But from this, this which is 
beyond my strength yet irresistible. He kissed her almost cruelly, his sex pumping 
between her damp thighs. The sweet evil laughter was bubbling out of her.
  
  He shut his eyes as he thrust against the tight little fount.
  
  "You cannot stay here, sire,"  Samir said." The risk is too great. They're watching the 
entrance. Surely we are being followed wherever we go. And sire, they searched your room, 
they found the ancient coins. They may have found ... more than that."
  
  "No. There was nothing else for them to find. But I must speak with you, both of you."
  
  "Some sort of hiding place,"  Julie said." Where we can meet."
  
  "I can arrange this,"  Samir said." But I need a couple of hours. Can you come to me 
outside the Great Mosque at three o'clock? I shall dress as you are dressed."
  
  "I'm coming with you!" Julie insisted." Nothing is going to keep me away."
  
  "Julie, you don't know what I've done,"  Ramses whispered.
  
  "Ah, then you must tell me,"  she said." These robes, Samir can get them for me as well 
</pre>
<!--N=10800 M=11000 pt=-->
as for himself."
  
  "Oh, how I love you,"  Ramses whispered very low under his breath." And I need you. But 
for your own sake, Julie, do not-"
  
  "Whatever it is, I stand with you."
  
  "Sire, leave now. There are policemen everywhere in this hotel. They will come back to 
question us. At the mosque. Three o'clock."
  
  The pain in his chest was bad, but he wasn't dying. He sat slumped in a small wooden 
chair near the bed. He needed a drink from the bottle in the other room, but he had no 
stamina to get it. It was all he could manage to slowly button his shirt.
  
  He turned to look at her again, her smooth waxen face in sleep. But now her eyes were 
open. She sat up and held out the glass vial to him.
  
  "Medicine,"  she said.
  
  "Yes, I shall get it. But you must stay here. You understand?"  In Latin first he 
explained it." You are safe here. You must remain in this house."
  
  It seemed she did not want to do this.
  
  "Where will you go?"  she asked. She looked around her; she looked at the window beside 
the bed, open onto the slanting afternoon sun and a barren whitewashed wall." Egypt. I do 
not believe this is Egypt."
  
  "Yes, yes, my dear. And I must try to find Ramses."
  
  That spark again, and then the confusion, and suddenly the panic.
  
  But he rose; he could delay this no longer. He could only hope and pray that Ramses had 
somehow gotten free of his captors. Surely Julie and Alex had marshalled the appropriate 
lawyers. Whatever the case, he must try to reach the hotel.
  
  "Not very long, Your Majesty,"  he said to her." I shall return with the medicine as 
soon as I can."
  
  She did not appear to trust him. She watched suspiciously as he went out of the room.
  
  Malenka sat crouched still in die corner of the sitting room. She was shivering and she 
stared at him with empty, stupid eyes.
  
  "My dear, listen to me,"  he said. He found his cane by the drinks cupboard and took it 
in hand." I want you to go out with me, lock the door and stand guard."
  
  Did the girl understand? She was staring past him; he turned around and saw Cleopatra 
in the door-barefoot, her hair streaming, so that again she looked utterly savage in the 
proper pink silk English dress. She stared at Malenka.
  
  The girl recoiled, whimpering. Her loathing and fear were plain.
  
  "No, no, dearest. Come with me,"  Elliott said." Don't be afraid, she won't hurt you."
  
  Malenka was too terrified to listen or obey. Her piteous cries grew louder. Cleopatra's 
blank face had changed to a mask of rage.
  
  She came towards the helpless woman, who stared at the naked bones in her hand and in 
her foot.
  
  "She's only a servant girl,"  said the Earl, reaching out for Cleopatra's arm. She 
pivoted and slapped him, knocking him backwards so that he fell against the parrot's 
cage. As Malenka screamed in pure hysteria, the bird began to screech frantically, 
beating his wings against the bars.
  
  Elliott tried to steady himself. The girl must stop screaming. This was a disaster. 
Cleopatra, looking from the screeching bird to the screaming woman, appeared on the verge 
of hysteria herself. Then she lunged at the woman, grabbing her by the throat and forcing 
her down on her knees as she had done to Henry only hours before.
  
  "No, stop it."  Elliott hurled himself at her. This time he could not let it happen, 
and once again he felt her powerful blow knocking him yards across the room. He fell 
against the wall,
  
  his hand up on the plaster. Then came that sound, that unspeakable sound. The girl was 
dead. Cleopatra had broken her neck.
  
  The bird had ceased its screeching. It stared with one round senseless eye into the 
room. Malenka lay on her back on the carpet, her head wrenched to one side at an 
impossible angle, her brown eyes half-closed.
  
  Cleopatra stood staring down at her. Thoughtfully she looked at the girl. Then she said 
in Latin:
  
  "She is dead."
  
  Elliott didn't answer. He gripped the edge of the marble-top cupboard and pulled 
himself to his feet. The throbbing in his chest meant nothing to him. Nothing could equal 
the pain in his soul.
  
  "Why did you do it!"  he whispered. Oh, but was he mad to ask such a question of this 
being? This thing whose brain was damaged, without doubt, as her body was damaged, 
beautiful though she was.
  
  Almost innocently she stared at Elliott. Then she looked back at the dead woman.
  
  "Tell me, Lord Rutherford, how did I come to be here!"  Her eyes narrowed. She 
approached him. In fact, she reached out and effortlessly helped him to stand upright. 
She picked up the walking stick and put it in his left hand." Where did I come from?"  
she asked." Lord Rutherford!"  She bent forward, her eyes growing wide and full of 
terror." Lord Rutherford, was I dead?"
  
  She didn't wait for him to answer; her scream came in pulses. He embraced her, and put 
his hand over her mouth.
  
  "Ramses brought you here. Ramses! You called out to him. You saw him."
  
  "Yes!"  She stood still, not struggling, merely clutching his wrist." Ramses was there. 
And when I ... when I called out to him, he ran from me. Like the woman, he ran from me! 
That same look in his eyes."
  
  "He wanted to come back to you. Others stopped him. Now I must go to get him. Do you 
understand? You must stay here. You must wait for me."  She stared past him." Ramses has 
the medicine,"  he said." I shall bring it back here."
  
  "How long?"
  
  "A few hours,"  he said." It's midaftemoon. I'll be back before dark."
  
  She moaned again, and pressed her curved thumb to her teeth,
  
  staring at the floor. She looked like a child suddenly, a child wrestling with an 
enormous puzzle." Ramses,"  she whispered. Clearly she was not certain who he was.
  
  He patted her shoulder gently; then with the aid of his cane, he approached the body of 
the girl. What in the name of heaven was he to do with it? Let it lie here and rot as the 
hours passed? How could he bury it in the garden, when he could barely walk as it was? He 
closed his eyes and laughed to himself bitterly. It seemed a thousand years since he had 
seen his son, or Julie, or the civilized rooms of a common place like Shepheard's Hotel. 
It seemed a thousand years ago that he had done anything normal or loved anything normal; 
or believed in it; or made the sacrifices that normality required.
  
  "Go, get the medicine,"  she said to him. She stepped between him and the dead woman. 
She reached down and lifted Malenka by her right arm. Effortlessly she dragged the woman 
across the carpet, past the clucking bird, which had the good fortune to be silent, and 
threw the corpse of the woman out into the yard as if it were a stuffed doll. The body 
landed on its face against the far wall.
  
  Do not think now. Go to Ramses. Go!
  
  "Three hours,"  he said to her, again using the two languages." Bolt the door after me. 
You see the bolt?"
  
  She turned and looked at the door. She nodded.
  
  "Very well, Lord Rutherford,"  she said in Latin." Before dark."
  
  She did not bolt the door. She stood there, her hands on the bare wood, listening as he 
walked away. It would take him a long time to move out of sight.
  
  And she must get out of this place! She must see where she was! This could not be 
Egypt. And she could not understand why she was here, or why she hungered so, and could 
not be satisfied, or why she felt this sharp, enervating desire to be in a man's arms. 
She would have forced Lord Rutherford again if she had not wanted him to go on his errand.
  
  But the errand; it was not clear to her suddenly. He meant to get the medicine, but 
what was the medicine! How could she live with the great gaping wounds she had?
  
  Yet only a moment ago she'd realized something about this, something to do with that 
dead woman, that shrieking slave girl whose neck she'd snapped.
  
  Ah, but the thing to do was leave here, while Lord Rutherford was not here to scold her 
like a teacher and tell her to remain.
  
  In a haze, she remembered the streets she had glimpsed earlier, full of great rumbling 
monstrous things made from metal; full of foul smoke and deafening noise. Who were the 
people she had seen around her? Women in dresses such as she wore.
  
  She'd been terrified then; but her body had been full of aches and misery. Now her body 
was full of cravings. She must not be terrified. She must go.
  
  She went back into the bedchamber. She opened the" magazine"  called Harper's Weekly 
and looked at the drawings of pretty women in these strange dresses that pinched them in 
the middle like insects. Then she looked at herself in the mirror on the cabinet door.
  
  She needed a covering for her head, and sandals. Yes, sandals. Quickly she searched the 
bedchamber, and found them in a wooden closet-sandals with gold worked into the leather, 
and small enough for her feet; and a great strange thing with silk flowers all over it, a 
thing such as one would wear to keep off rain.
  
  She laughed as she looked at it. Then she put it on her head, and tied the ribbons 
under her chin. Now she looked very much like the women in the pictures. Except for her 
hands. What was she to do about her hands!
  
  She stared at the naked bones of the first right finger. A thin covering of skin 
overlaid them, but it was like silk, more sheer than the dress. She could see blood in 
it; but it was transparent. And the mere sight of the bones caused her to become dizzy, 
confused again.
  
  A memory-someone standing above her. No, don't let it begin again. She must wrap her 
hand in something, a bandage. The left hand would do well enough. She turned and began to 
search through the cabinet of female clothes.
  
  And then she made the loveliest discovery! Here were two little silk garments made for 
hands. They were white; they had pearls sewn on them! Each had five fingers and had been 
cut to fit closely over the hand. This was perfect. She slipped them on; they hid the 
naked bone completely.
  
  Ah, the wonder of what Lord Rutherford had called these" modern times."  These times of 
</pre>
<!--N=11000 M=11200 pt=-->
music boxes and" motor cars,"  as he called them, the things she had seen this morning, 
all around her, like great roaring hippopotami from the river.
  
  What would Lord Rutherford call these things, these clothes for hands?
  
  She was wasting tune. She went to the dressing table, gathered up a few small coins 
that lay there and put these in the deep hidden side pocket of the heavy skirt.
  
  As she opened the front door of the house, she glanced over at the dead body, out in 
the courtyard, heaped against the wall. Something, what was it, she had to understand it, 
but it simply would not come clear to her. Something ...
  
  She saw again that hazy figure standing over her. She heard again those sacred words. A 
tongue she knew speaking to her. This was the tongue of your forefathers, you must learn 
it. No, but that had been another time. They had been in a bright room full of Italian 
marble, and he had been teaching her. This time, it had been dark and hot and she'd been 
struggling upwards as if from deep water, her limbs weak, the water crushing her, her 
mourn full of water so that she couldn't scream.
  
  "Your heart beats again; you come to life! You are young and strong once more; you are 
now and forever."
  
  No, do not weep again! Do not struggle to grasp it, to see it. The figure moving away; 
blue eyes. She had known those blue eyes. As soon as I drank it, it happened. The 
priestess showed me in the mirror , . . blue eyes. Ah, but whose voice was this! This 
voice that had said the prayer in the darkness, the ancient sacred prayer for the opening 
of the mummy's mouth.
  
  She had called out his name! And here, in (his strange little house, Lord Rutherford 
had spoken the name also. Lord Rutherford was going ...
  
  Be back before dark.
  
  It was no use. She stared through the archway at the dead body. She must get out into 
this strange land. And she must remember that it was extremely easy to kill them, to snap 
their necks like brittle stems.
  
  She hurried out, without closing the door. The whitewashed houses on either side of her 
looked familiar and good to her. She had known such cities. Maybe this was Egypt, but no, 
that could not be.
  
  She rushed along, holding the ribbons tight so that the strange headdress would not fly 
from her hair. So easy to walk fast. And the sun felt so good to her. The sun. In a flash 
she saw it flooding down from a high portal in a cave. A wooden shutter had opened. She 
heard the creak of the chain.
  
  Then it was gone, the memory, if it had even been a memory. Wake, Ramses.
  
  That was his name. But she didn't care now. She was free to roam this strange city; 
free to discover, to see!
  
  CAMIR PURCHASED several Bedouin garments in  the first shop in old Cairo that sold such 
clothes. He ducked into a small restaurant, a filthy alleyway of a place full of 
down-on-their-luck Frenchmen, and there put on the loose, concealing garb and tucked the 
other garments-those heft bought for Julie-under his arm, inside his robes.
  
  He liked this loose peasant costume, which was infinitely older than the tailored robes 
and hats which most Egyptians wore, in fact, it was probably the oldest mode of dress 
still in active existence-the long, loose drapery of the desert wanderers. He felt free 
in it, and safe from all eyes.
  
  He hurried along through the winding honeycomb streets of Arab Cairo, towards the house 
of his cousin Zaki, a man he disliked dealing with but one who would give him exactly 
what he wanted more easily and efficiently than anyone else. And who knew how long Ramses 
must hide in Cairo? Who knew how these murders would be solved?
  
  When he reached the mummy factory of his cousin-surely one of the most distasteful 
places in the entire known world- he entered by the side gate. A load of freshly wrapped 
bodies baked hi the harsh afternoon sunshine. Inside, no doubt, others were being stewed 
in the pot.
  
  A lone worker dug a trench now into which these fresh mummies would be laid for a few 
days," browning"  as it were in damp earth.
  
  It disgusted Samir completely, though he had come to this little factory as a boy long 
before he had known there were real mummies, the bodies of the ancient ancestors to be 
studied, to be saved from theft and mutilation, and preserved.
  
  "Look at it this way,"  his cousin Zaki once argued." We are better than the thieves 
who sell our ancient rulers bit by bit to the foreigners. What we sell isn't sacred. It's 
fake."
  
  Good old Zaki. Samir was about to signal to one of the men inside the place, a man who 
was in fact engaged in wrapping a body. But then Zaki himself emerged from the reeking 
little house.
  
  "Eh, Samir! So good to see you always, cousin. Come have a coffee with me, cousin."
  
  "Not now, Zaki, I need your assistance."
  
  "Of course, you would not be here if you did not."
  
  Samir accepted the rebuke with a humble little smile.
  
  "Zaki, I need a safe place, a little house with a heavy door and a back entrance. 
Secret. For a few days, maybe longer. I don't know."
  
  Zaki laughed good-naturedly, but a little smugly.
  
  "Ah, so, the educated one, the one whom all respect, and he comes to me for a hiding 
place?"
  
  "Don't question me, Zaki."  Samir produced a roll of bills from under his robe. He held 
this out to his cousin." A safe house. I can pay."
  
  "All right, I know just the thing,"  said Zaki." Come into the house and take coffee 
with me. One whiff, and you get used to the smell."
  
  For decades Zaki had been saying that. Samir never got used to the smell. But he felt 
compelled now to do what his cousin wanted, and he followed him into the" embalming 
room,"  a miserable place where a vat of bitumen and other chemicals was always 
simmering, waiting for a new body to be thrown in.
  
  As he passed, Samir saw that the pot had a new victim. It sickened him. He looked away, 
but not before he had glimpsed the poor devil's black hair billowing free on the surface 
as his face floated just beneath it.
  
  "How about a nice fresh mummy?"  Zaki teased him." Straight from the Valley of the 
Kings. Name a dynasty, I give it to you! Male, female, whatever you wish!"
  
  "The hiding place, cousin."
  
  "Yes, yes. I have several such houses vacant. Coffee first and I send you off with a 
key. Tell me what you know of this robbery in the museum! The mummy which was stolen! Was 
it genuine, do you think?"
  
  In a daze, Elliott walked into the lobby of Shepheard's. He knew that he was 
dishevelled, that dirt and sand clung to his trousers and even his coat. His left leg 
ached, but he no longer truly felt it. He did not care that beneath his rumpled shirt and 
suit coat he was drenched in sweat. He knew that he should be relieved to be here-safe 
and away from all the horrors he'd witnessed, the horrors in which he had shared. But it 
seemed unreal to him; he had not escaped the atmosphere of the little house.
  
  Ah1 the way back from old Cairo, as the cab jolted him through the insufferable 
traffic, he had thought, Malenka is dead because I brought the woman there. Henry he 
could not grieve for. But Malenka would be forever on his soul. And the murderer, his 
monstrous resurrected Queen. What would he do with her if he could not find Ramsey? When 
would she turn on him?
  
  The thing to do now was to find Samir, for he would know where Ramsey was.
  
  He was quite unprepared for Alex rushing to him, and embracing him and trying to stop 
his progress to the desk.
  
  "Father, thank God you're here."
  
  "Where's Ramsey? I have to talk to him at once."
  
  "Father, don't you know what's happened? They're searching for him all over Cairo. He's 
wanted for murder, Father, both here and in London. Julie's beside herself. We've been 
going out of our minds. And Henry, we cannot find Henry! Father, where have you been!"
  
  "You stay with Julie, you take care of her,"  he said." Let your American Miss 
Barrington wait."  He tried to move on to the desk.
  
  "Miss Barrington's gone,"  Alex said with a dismissive gesture." Whole family changed 
their plans this morning, after the police came to question them about Ramsey and about 
us."
  
  "I'm sorry, son,"  he murmured." But you must leave me now, I have to find Samir."
  
  "Then you're in luck. He's just come in."
  
  Alex gestured to the cashier. Samir had apparently just written a bank draft for some 
money. He was counting it and putting it away. He had a bundle under his arm. He seemed 
to be in a hurry.
  
  "Let me alone now, my boy,"  Elliott said as he hurried towards him. Samir looked up 
just as Elliott reached the marble desk. He drew Samir aside.
  
  "I have to see him,"  Elliott whispered." If you know where he is, I must see him."
  
  "My Lord, please."  Samir glanced around, slowly and casually taking in the entire 
lobby." The authorities are searching for him. People are watching us now."
  
  "But you know where he is. Or how to get a message to him. You know all about him, you 
have from the beginning."
  
  Samir's eyes became unreadable. It was as if a door closed firmly in his soul.
  
  "You give him this message for me."
  
  Samir started to walk away.
  
  "Tell him I have her."
  
  Samir hesitated." But who?"  he whispered." What do you mean?"
  
  Elliott took his arm roughly again.
  
  "He knows. And she knows who she is as well! Tell him I took her from the museum. And I 
have her in a safe place. I've been with her all day."
  
  "I don't understand you."
  
  "Ah, but he will. Now listen carefully. Tell him that the sun helped her. It healed 
her, and so did the ... the medicine in the vial."
  
  The Earl drew out the empty vial now and put it in Samir's hand. Samir stared down at 
it as if he were afraid of it; as if he did not want it to touch him and did not know 
</pre>
<!--N=11200 M=11400 pt=-->
what in the world he would do now that it had.
  
  "She needs more of it!"  Elliott said." She's damaged, inside and outside. She's mad."  
Out of the corner of his eye, he saw Alex moving towards him, but he gestured for 
patience, drawing even closer to Samir." Tell him he's to contact me at seven this 
evening. At the French cafe called the Babylon in the Arab quarter. I shall talk to no 
one but him."
  
  "But wait, you must explain-"
  
  "I told you. He will understand. And under no circumstances is he to contact me here. 
It's too dangerous. I won't have my son mixed up in this. The Babylon at seven. And tell 
him this also. She has killed three times. And she will kill again."
  
  He left Samir abruptly, turning to his son and reaching out for Alex's helping hand.
  
  "Come, take me upstairs,"  he said." I have to rest. I'm near fainting."
  
  "Good Lord, Father, what is going on!"
  
  "Ah, that you have to tell me now. What's happened since I left? Oh, and the desk. Tell 
the desk I will speak to no one. They are not to ring the room. No one is to be allowed 
up."
  
  Only a few steps more, he thought as the elevator doors opened. If he could only make 
it to a clean bed. He was dizzy now; and close to nausea. He was grateful for his son, 
who held him firmly around the shoulders, and would not let him fall.
  
  As soon as he reached his room, he lost his balance altogether. But Walter was there, 
and Walter and Alex together helped him onto the bed.
  
  "I want to sit up,"  he said crankily like an old invalid.
  
  "I'll run you a bath, my lord, a good hot restful bath."
  
  "Do that, Walter, but you'll bring me a drink first. Scotch, and set the bottle beside 
the glass."
  
  "Father, I've never seen you like this. I'm going to ring the house doctor."
  
  "You are not!"  Elliott said. His tone startled Alex, which was all well and good." 
Would Lady Macbeth have benefited from a doctor? I don't think a doctor would have helped 
her."
  
  "Father, what is all this about?"  Alex's voice had dropped to a whisper, as it always 
did when he was truly upset. He watched as Walter put the glass in Elliott's hand.
  
  Elliott drank a swallow of the whisky." Ah, that's good,"  he sighed. In that horrid 
little house, that house of death and madness, there had been a dozen bottles of Henry's 
liquor, yet he could not bring himself to touch them; could not bring himself to drink 
from a glass that had been Henry's, or to eat a morsel of Henry's food. He had given it 
to her, but he could not himself touch it. And now he luxuriated in the sweet warmth of 
the Scotch, so utterly different from the burning in his chest.
  
  "Now, Alex, you must listen,"  he said, taking another swallow." You are to leave Cairo 
immediately. You're to pack your bags now and be on the five o'clock train to Port Said. 
I 'm taking you to the train myself."
  
  How utterly defenseless his son looked suddenly. Just a boy, a sweet young boy. And 
this is my dream of immortality, he
  
  thought; and it has always been there. My Alex, who must go home now to England where 
he will be safe.
  
  "That's out of the question, Father,"  Alex said with the same gentleness." I can't 
leave Julie here."
  
  "I don't want you to leave Julie. You're taking Julie with you. You're to go to her 
now. Tell her to get ready! Do as I say."
  
  "Father, you don't understand. She won't leave until Ramsey's been cleared. And no one 
can find Ramsey. And no one can find Henry, either. Father, until this matter's settled, 
I don't think the authorities would let any of us leave."
  
  "Dear God."
  
  Alex took out his handkerchief; he folded it carefully and blotted Elliott's forehead. 
He folded it again and offered it to Elliott. Elliott took it and wiped his mouth.
  
  "Father, you don't think Ramsey really did these dreadful things, do you? I mean, I was 
rather fond of Ramsey!"
  
  Walter came to the door." Your bath's ready, my lord."
  
  "Poor Alex,"  Elliott whispered." Poor decent and honorable Alex."
  
  "Father, tell me what's the matter. I've never seen you like this. You're not yourself."
  
  "Oh, yes, I am myself. My true self. Desperate and cunning and full of mad dreams as 
always. Too much myself. You know, my son, when you inherit the title, you will probably 
be the only decent and honorable Earl of Rutherford in our whole history."
  
  "You're being the philosopher again. And I'm not all that decent and honorable. I'm 
merely well bred, which I hope is a tolerable substitute. Now, get into the bath. You'll 
feel much better. And don't drink any more Scotch, please."  He called out to Walter to 
come and give him a hand.
  
  Miles Winthrop stared at the telegram placed in his hand by the man standing before him.
  
  "Arrest her? Julie Stratford! For the theft of a priceless mummy in London? But this is 
madness, all of it. Alex Savarell and I went to school together! I'm contacting the 
British Museum myself."
  
  "Very well, but do it promptly,"  said the other." The governor's furious. The 
Department of Antiquities is up in arms. And find Henry Stratford. Track down that 
mistress of his, that dancing girl, Malenka. Stratford's somewhere in Cairo, and
  
  pretty well besotted, you can be sure of it. In the meantime arrest somebody or the old 
man will blow his top."
  
  '"The hell I will,"  Miles whispered as he picked up the phone.
  
  Ah, such a bazaar. Everything was for sale here-rich fabrics, perfumes, spices, and 
strange ticking devices with Roman numbers on them; jewelry and pottery; and food! But 
she had no money to buy the food! The first peddler had told her in English and with 
age-old indisputable gestures that the money she had was no good.
  
  She walked on. She was listening to the voices on all sides of her, picking out the 
English, trying to understand.
  
  "I won't pay that much. That's too dear, the man's trying to rob us..."
  
  "Just a little drink, come on now. It's burning hot."
  
  "Oh, and these necklaces, how pretty."
  
  Laughter, horrid noises; loud grating noises! She had heard these before. She put her 
hands over her ears under the broad floppy headdress. She walked on, trying to shut out 
what hurt her and still hear what she needed in order to learn.
  
  Suddenly a monstrous sound-an inconceivable sound-shook her and she looked up, on the 
verge of screaming. Her hands would not shut it out. She stumbled forward, realizing in 
her panic that those around her were not frightened! Those around her were scarcely 
paying any attention at all.
  
  She had to fathom this mystery! And though the tears were welling in her eyes, she 
moved on.
  
  What she beheld suddenly filled her with a nameless dread. She had no words in any 
tongue to describe it. Immense, black, it moved forward, on wheels made of metal, a 
chimney atop it belching smoke. The sound was so loud all other sounds vanished. Great 
wooden wagons following, coupled to it by huge hooks of black iron. The whole monstrous 
caravan thundering along a thin strip of metal that ran along the ground. And the noise 
grew even louder as the thing rolled past her and entered a great yawning tunnel in which 
hundreds crowded as if trying to get near to it.
  
  She sobbed aloud, staring at it. Oh, why had she left her hideaway? Why had she left 
Lord Rutherford, who would have protected her? But just when it seemed she could see 
nothing worse than this awful chain of wagons rattling past her, the last one entered the 
tunnel and she beheld, beyond the metal pathway, a great granite statue of the Pharaoh 
Ramses, standing with arms folded, his scepters in his crossed hands.
  
  In dizzying shock she looked at this colossus. Ripped from the land she had known, the 
land she had ruled, this tiling stood here, grotesque, abandoned, ludicrous.
  
  She backed away. Another one of the demonic chariots was coming. She heard a great 
searing screech from it, and then it roared by, obliterating the statue.
  
  She felt herself turning, inward, away from all of it, back into the darkness, into the 
dark water whence she'd come.
  
  When she opened her eyes a young Englishman stood over her. He had his arm around her 
and was lifting her and telling others to get away. She understood that he was asking 
after her and what he might do.
  
  "Coffee,"  she whispered." I should like some sugar in my coffee."  Words from the 
talking machine Lord Rutherford had revealed to her." I should like a bit of lemon in my 
tea."
  
  His face brightened." Well, yes, of course. I shall get you some coffee. I shall take 
you there, into the British cafe!"
  
  He lifted her to her feet. What a fine muscular youth he was. And blue eyes he had, so 
rich in color, almost like the other...
  
  She glanced back over her shoulder. It had not been a dream. The statue stood there 
towering over the iron pathways; she could hear the roar of the chariots, though none was 
in sight.
  
  She was weak again for a moment, stumbling; he caught her. He helped her right along.
  
  She listened keenly to the words he spoke.
  
  "It's a nice place; you can sit, rest. You know, you gave me quite a scare there a 
moment ago. Why, you fell just as if you'd been struck over the head."
  
  The cafe. The voice on the gramophone had said," I shall meet you in the cafe."  A 
place for drinking coffee, obviously, for meeting, talking. And full of women in these 
dresses, and young men clothed like Lord Rutherford and this fine creature, with the 
powerfully built arms and legs.
  
  She sat down at the small marble-top table. Voices everywhere." Why, I frankly think 
everything here is super, but you know Mother, the way she carries on."  And" Gruesome, 
isn't it? They say her neck was broken."  And" Oh, this tea is cold. Call that waiter."
  
  She watched the man at the next table peel off slips of printed paper for the servant. 
Was this money? The servant was giving him coins in return.
  
  A tray of hot coffee had been set down before her. She was so hungry now she could have 
drunk the pot entirely, but she knew it was proper to let him pour it in the cups. Lord 
</pre>
<!--N=11400 M=11600 pt=-->
Rutherford had showed her that much. And yes, the young man did it. Pretty smile he had. 
How to tell him that she wanted to bed him immediately? They should find a small inn. 
Surely these people had inns.
  
  Across from her a young woman spoke rapidly:
  
  "Well, I don't even like opera. I wouldn't go if I were in New York at all. But since 
we're in Cairo, we're all supposed to go to the opera and love it. It's ridiculous."
  
  "But darling, it's Aida."
  
  Aida." Celeste Aida."  She began to hum it, then sing it softly, too low for these 
people to hear. But her companion heard her. He smiled at her, positively beamed. Getting 
him into bed would be nothing. Finding the bed, that might be hard. Of course she could 
take him back to the little house, but that was too far away. She stopped singing.
  
  "Oh, no, you mustn't stop,"  he said." Go on singing."
  
  Go on singing, go on singing. Waiting just a moment was the secret, then the meaning 
came surprisingly clear.
  
  Ramses had taught her that. In the beginning, each tongue sounds impenetrable. You 
speak it; you listen; and gradually it comes clear.
  
  Ramses; Ramses, whose statue stood among the iron chariots! She turned, craning her 
neck to see through the window-why, the window was covered over with a giant piece of 
very clear glass. She could see the dirt on it. However did they make such a thing?" 
Modern times,"  as Lord Rutherford said. Well, if they could make those monstrous 
chariots, they could make such glass.
  
  "You've a lovely voice, positively lovely. Are you by any chance going to the opera? 
Everyone in Cairo is going, or so it seems."
  
  "The ball will last till dawn,"  said the woman opposite to her female companion.
  
  "Well, I think it's super. We're just too far from civilization to complain."
  
  He laughed. He had overheard the women too.
  
  "The ball's supposed to be the event of the season here. They hold it at Shepheard's."  
He drank a swallow of his coffee. That was the signal she'd been waiting for. She downed 
her entire cup.
  
  He smiled. He poured her another from the little pot.
  
  "Thank you,"  she said, carefully mimicking the record.
  
  "Oh, but didn't you want sugar?"
  
  "I think I prefer cream, if you don't mind."
  
  "Of course not.' * He poured a dollop of milk in her cup. Was that cream? Yes, Lord 
Rutherford had given her the last of it that the slave woman had in the house.
  
  "Are you going to the ball at Shepheard's? We're staying at Shepheard's, my uncle and 
I. My uncle's in trade here."
  
  He stopped again. What was he staring at? Her eyes? Her hair? He was very pretty; she 
loved the fresh new skin of his face and throat. Lord Rutherford was a fine-looking man, 
for certain; but this one had the beauty of youth.
  
  She reached across the table and felt his chest through the linen of his clothing, 
through the silk that covered her fingers. Don't let him feel the bone. How surprised he 
looked. Her fingertips touched his nipple and she pinched it ever so slightly with her 
fourth finger and thumb. Why, he blushed like a vestal virgin. The blood was roaring in 
his face. She smiled.
  
  He glanced around, at the two women opposite. But they went right on talking." Simply 
super!"
  
  "I bought this gown, you know, spent a fortune on it. I said, well, if I'm going to be 
here, and everyone's going ..."
  
  "The opera."  She laughed." Going to the opera."
  
  "Yes,"  he said, but he was still amazed at what she'd done. She emptied the pot into 
her cup and drank it. Then she picked up the little pitcher of milk and drank that too. 
She picked up the sugar and poured it into her mouth. Ah, she did not like that. She set 
it down, and then slipped her hand under the small table and squeezed his leg. He was 
ready for her! Ah, poor young boy, poor wide-eyed young boy.
  
  She remembered that time when she and Antony had brought those young soldiers in the 
tent, and stripped them, before making a choice. That had been a lovely game. Until 
Ramses found out about it. Was there anything he hadn't accused her of in the end? But 
this one was powerfully amorous! He wanted her.
  
  She rose from the table. She beckoned and went towards the doors.
  
  Noise outside. The chariots. She did not care. If they didn't frighten all these 
people, surely they were something explainable. What she had to do now was find a place. 
He was right behind her, talking to her.
