  "You have an address for Henry Stratford?"
  
  "He asked that we not give it out, sir."
  
  "Well, this is the Earl of Rutherford, and I am a friend of the family. Please do give 
it to me."
  
  He memorized it quickly, thanked the clerk and put down the receiver. He knew the 
street in old Cairo. It was only steps from the Babylon, the French night club where the 
dancing girl, Malenka, worked. He and Lawrence used to sit and argue in that club by the 
hour, when there had been dancing boys.
  
  He reaffirmed his vow: whatever else happened, he would find out what he could from 
Ramsey before they parted as to what had really happened to Lawrence in that tomb.
  
  Nothing would deter him from that, not cowardice, not dreams of the elixir. He had to 
know what, if anything, Henry had done.
  
  The door opened quietly. It had to be his man, Walter, the only one who would enter 
without a knock.
  
  "Nice rooms, my lord?"  Too solicitous. He had overheard the argument. He puttered 
about, wiping the bedside table, adjusting the shade of the lamp.
  
  "Oh, yes, they're fine, Walter. They'll do. And my son, where is he?"
  
  "Downstairs, my lord, and may I tell you a little secret?"
  
  Walter leaned over the bed, hand up to his mouth as if they were in the midst of a 
crowd rather than in a large empty bedroom with nothing but an empty sitting room opening 
onto it.
  
  "He's met a pretty girl, downstairs, an American. Name's Barrington, my lord. Rich 
family from New York. Father in the railroads."
  
  Elliott smiled." Now, how do you know all that already?"
  
  Walter laughed. He emptied Elliott's ashtray of the cheroot, which had gone out because 
it burned Elliott's lungs so badly he couldn't smoke it.
  
  "Rita told me, my lord. Saw him not an hour after we checked in. And he's with Miss 
Barrington now, taking a little walk about in the hotel gardens."
  
  "Well, wouldn't that be interesting, Walter,"  Elliott said, shaking his head," if our 
dear Alex married an American heiress."
  
  "Yes, my lord, it certainly would be interesting,"  Walter said." As for the other, do 
you want the same arrangements as before?"  Again Walter assumed a highly confidential 
air." Someone to follow him?"
  
  He meant Ramses, of course. He referred to the shameful matter of the boy whom Elliott 
had hired in Alexandria.
  
  "If you can do it quietly,"  Elliott said." They're to watch him night and day, to 
report to me where he goes and what he does."
  
  He gave Walter a wad of bills, which Walter tucked in his pocket immediately and then 
went out, closing the door behind him.
  
  Elliott tried to take a deep breath, but the pain in his chest wouldn't allow it; very 
quietly he took one shallow breath after another. He stared at the white curtains 
ballooning over the open windows. He could hear the bustle and noise of British Cairo 
outside. He thought about the futility of all of this-following Ramses in the hope of 
discovering something, anything, about the elixir.
  
  Absurd, really. A little bit of cloak-and-dagger that did no more than fuel Elliott's 
obsession. There was no doubt now as to what Ramses was; and if he had the elixir with 
him, undoubtedly he carried it on his person.
  
  Elliott felt ashamed. But that was a small matter. The larger matter was the mystery 
from which he was utterly shut out. Might as well go to the man and beg for the gift. He 
had a good mind to call Walter back, to tell him it was all foolishness. But in his heart 
of hearts he knew he would try one more time to search Ramses' room; and the boy 
following Ramses might give him some clue as to the man's habits.
  
  It was something to do, wasn't it, other than think about the pain in his chest and in 
his hip. He closed his eyes; he saw the colossal statues of Abu Simbel again. It seemed 
to him suddenly that this was the last great adventure of his life, and he realized that 
he had no regrets, that this excitement had been in itself a priceless gift to him.
  
  And who knows, he laughed softly to himself. Perhaps Alex will find an American heiress.
  
  Ah, she was lovely, and he so liked her voice and the divine sparkle in her eye, for 
that's just what it was; and how she'd push him lightly with her finger when she laughed. 
And what a pretty name she had, Miss Charlotte Whitney Banington.
  
  "And then we thought we'd go to London, but they say it's frightfully cold this time of 
year, and so gloomy, with the Tower of London and all, where they chopped off Anne 
Boleyn's head."
  
  "Oh, it wouldn't be if I showed it to you!"  he said.
  
  "Well, when are you going home? You're staying for the opera, aren't you? Seems 
everybody in this place talks of nothing else. It's very funny, you know, to come all the 
way to Egypt to see an opera."
  
  "But it's Aida, my dear."
  
  "I know, I know..."
  
  "And yes, we are going, as a matter of fact, it's all been arranged. And you'll be 
there, of course. Ah, what about the ball afterwards?"
  
  What an adorable smile." Well, I didn't know about the ball, you see. I didn't really 
want to go with Mummy and Daddy and-"
  
  "Well, perhaps you'd go with me."
  
  Oh, what lovely white teeth.
  
  "Why, Lord Rutherford, I'd simply love it."
  
  "Please call me Alex, Miss Barrington. Lord Rutherford's my father."
  
  "But you're a Viscount yourself,"  she said with stunning American frankness and the 
same ingratiating smile." That's what they told me."
  
  "Yes, I guess that's true. Viscount Summerfield, actually ..."
  
  "What is a Viscount?"  she asked.
  
  Such lovely eyes, and the way she laughed as she looked at him. Suddenly he was no 
longer angry with Henry for being holed up. with that dancer, Malenka. Better that Henry 
should be altogether out of sight with his drinking and gambling, rather than hanging 
about the public rooms of the hotel.
  
  Oh, what would Julie think of Miss Barrington? Well, he knew what he thought!
  
  High noon. The dining room. Ramses sat back laughing.
  
  "Now, I insist you do it. Pick up the fork and the knife,"  Julie said." Just try."
  
  "Julie, it's not that I can't do it! It's that it seems absolutely barbaric to thrust 
food in one's mouth with pieces of silver!"
  
  "Your trouble is, you know how perfectly handsome you are, and how you charm everyone."
  
  "I learned a little tact over the centuries."  He picked up the fork, deliberately 
gripping the handle in his fist.
  
  "Stop that,"  she said under her breath.
  
  He laughed. He laid down the fork, and took a morsel of chicken with his fingers again. 
She grabbed his hand.
  
  "Ramses, eat properly."
  
  "Darling dear,"  he said," I'm eating in the manner of Adam and Eve, Osiris and Isis, 
Moses, Aristotle and Alexander."
  
  She dissolved with laughter. He stole a kiss from her quickly. Then his face darkened.
  
  "What about your cousin?"  he whispered.
  
  It caught her completely off guard." Must we speak of him?"
  
  "Are we to leave him here in Cairo? Are we to leave the murder of your father 
unavenged?"
  
  Tears sprang to her eyes. Angrily, she searched in her bag for
  
  her handkerchief. She had not seen Henry since their return, and she didn't want to see 
him. In her letter to Randolph she had not mentioned him. And it was the thought of her 
uncle as much as anything else that made her cry now.
  
  "Pass the burden to me,"  Ramses whispered." I shall bear it easily. Let justice be 
done."
  
  She put her hand up suddenly to his lips.
  
  "No more,"  she said." Not now."
  
</pre>
<!--N=9200 M=9400 pt=-->
  He looked up, over her shoulder. He gave a little sigh, and squeezed her hand." The 
museum party is here, it seems,"  he said." And we mustn't keep Elliott standing about."
  
  Alex swooped down suddenly to give her a little peck on the cheek. How chaste. She 
wiped at her nose quickly, and turned so that he wouldn't see the colour in her face.
  
  "Well, are we all set?"  Alex said." We have our private guide meeting us at the museum 
in fifteen minutes. Oh, and before I forget, the opera has been completely arranged. Box 
seats and of course tickets to the ball afterwards. And Ramsey, old man, if you'll allow 
me to say so, I shan't compete with you that night for Julie's attentions."
  
  Julie nodded." Fallen in love already,"  she said with a mock whisper. She allowed Alex 
to help her to her feet." A Miss Barrington."
  
  "Please, darling, do give me your opinion. She's coming to the museum with us."
  
  "Let's hurry,"  Ramses said." Your father is not well. I'm surprised he doesn't remain 
behind."
  
  "Good Lord, do you know what the Cairo Museum means to people?"  said Alex." And it's 
the dirtiest, dustiest place I've ever-"
  
  "Alex, please, we are about to see the greatest collection of Egyptian treasures in 
existence."
  
  "The last ordeal,"  Ramses said, taking Julie's arm." And all the Kings are in one 
room? This is what you have been telling me?"
  
  "My word, I should think you'd been there before,"  Alex said." You are such a puzzle, 
old man..."
  
  "Give up on it,"  Ramses whispered.
  
  But Alex scarcely heard. He was whispering to Julie that she must give him a candid 
opinion of Miss Barrington. And Miss Barrington was the rosy-cheeked blond woman standing 
in the lobby with Elliott and Samir. A pretty thing, obviously.
  
  "To think,"  said Julie," you need my approval!" "Shhhh, there she is. With Father. 
They're getting along famously."
  
  "Alex, she's perfectly lovely."
  
  Through the broad dusty rooms of the first floor they trekked, listening to the guide, 
who spoke rapidly despite his thick Egyptian accent. Ah, treasures galore, there was no 
doubt of it. All the loot of the tombs; things he had never even dreamed of in his time. 
And here it was for all the world to see, under soiled glass and weak lights, yet 
nevertheless preserved from time and ruin.
  
  He stared at the statue of the happy scribe-the little cross-legged figure with his 
papyrus on his lap, looking up eagerly. It should have moved him to tears. But all he 
felt was a vague joy that he had come, he had visited it all as he should, and now he 
would be leaving.
  
  At last they proceeded up the grand stairway. The room of the Kings, the ordeal he was 
dreading. He felt Samir at his side.
  
  "Why not forgo this gruesome pleasure, sire? For they are all horrors."
  
  "No, Samir, let me see it through to the finish."
  
  He almost laughed when he understood what it was-a great chamber of glass cases like 
the cases in the department stores where goods were displayed safe from prying fingers.
  
  Nevertheless the blackened grinning bodies gave him a dull shock. It seemed he could 
scarcely hear the guide, and yet the words were coming clear:
  
  "The Ramses the Damned mummy in England is still a controversial discovery. Very 
controversial. This is the true Ramses the Second, right before you, known as Ramses the 
Great."
  
  Edging closer, he stared down at the gaunt horrid thing that bore his name.
  
  "... Ramses the Second, greatest of all Egypt's Pharaohs."
  
  He almost smiled as he studied the dried limbs, and then the obvious truth hit him, 
like something physical pressing on his chest, that if he had not gone into that cave 
with the wicked old priestess, he would indeed be lying in this case. Or what was left of 
him. And all the world since faded; it was no more suddenly than those years. And to 
think he would have died without knowing so much; without ever realizing...
  
  Noise. Julie had said something, but he couldn't hear her.
  
  There was a dull roaring in his head. Suddenly he saw them all, these ghastly corpses, 
like burnt things out of the oven. He saw the filthy glass; he saw the tourists pushing 
this way and that.
  
  He heard Cleopatra's voice. When you let him die, you let me die! I want to be with him 
now. Take it away, I won't drink it.
  
  Were they moving again? Had Samir said it was time to go? He looked up slowly from the 
awful sunken face and saw Elliott gazing at him, with the strangest expression. What was 
it? Understanding.
  
  Oh, but how can you understand? I myself can scarcely understand.
  
  "Let's go, sire."
  
  He let Samir take his arm and lead him towards the doorway. It seemed Miss Barrington 
laughed at something Alex had whispered in her ear. And the din of the French tourists 
nearby was positively frightful. Such a harsh tongue.
  
  He turned, staring back at the glass cases. Yes, leave this place. Why are we going 
down the corridor to the very back of the building? Surely we have seen it all; the 
dreams and fervor of a nation come to this; a great and dusty mausoleum where young girls 
laugh and rightly so.
  
  The guide had stopped at the end of the hall. What was it now? Another body in a case, 
and how could anyone see it in the shadows? Only weak shafts of dusty light cut through 
the dirty window above.
  
  "This unknown woman ... a curious example of natural preservation."
  
  "We cannot smoke, can we?"  he whispered to Samir.
  
  "No, sire, but we can slip away, surely. We can wait for the others outside, if you 
wish..."
  
  "... combined to naturally mummify the body of this anonymous woman."
  
  "Let's go,"  he said. He placed his hand on Samir's shoulder. But then he must tell 
Julie lest she be alarmed. He stepped forward and gave her sleeve a little tug, and 
glanced down at the body in the case as he did so.
  
  His heart stopped.
  
  "... though most of the wrappings were long ago torn away-in the search for valuables, 
no doubt-the woman's body
  
  was perfectly preserved by the delta mud, much as bodies found in northern bogs. ..."
  
  The rippling hair, the long slender neck, the gently sloping shoulders! And the face, 
the very face! For a moment he did not believe his eyes!
  
  The voice pounded in his head:" ... unknown woman ... Ptolemaic period ... 
Graeco-Roman. But see the Egyptian profile. The well-molded lips ..."
  
  Miss Barrington's high-pitched laugh went through his temples.
  
  He blundered forward. He had brushed Miss Barrington's arm. Alex was saying something 
to him, calling him sharply by name. The guide was staring up.
  
  He looked down through the glass. Her face! It was she-the soft cerements molded into 
her flesh, her naked hands gently curved, her feet bare, the wrappings loose around her 
ankles. All black, black as the delta mud which had surrounded her, preserved her, 
hardened her!
  
  "Ramses, what is it!"
  
  "Sir, are you ill!"
  
  They were speaking to him from all sides; they were surrounding him. Suddenly someone 
pulled him away, and he turned back furiously." No, let me go."
  
  He heard the glass shatter beside him. An alarm had gone off, shrieking like a woman in 
terror.
  
  Look at her closed eyes. It's she! It's she. He needed no rings, no ornaments, no names 
to tell him. It's she.
  
  The armed men had come. Julie pleaded. Miss Barrington was afraid. Alex was trying to 
make him listen.
  
  "I cannot hear you now. I can hear nothing. It is she. Anonymous woman."  She, the last 
Queen of Egypt.
  
  Again, he jerked free of the hand on his arm. He hovered over the filthy glass. He 
wanted to shatter it. Her legs no more than bones; the fingers of her right hand dried 
almost to a skeleton. But that face, that beautiful face. My Cleopatra.
  
  Finally he had allowed himself to be led away. Julie had questioned him. He had not 
answered. She had paid for the damage to the case, a small display of jewelry upset. He 
wanted to say that he was sorry.
  
  He could not remember anything else. Except her face, and the whole picture she made-a 
thing created from the black earth and lifted up and placed on the bare polished wood of 
the case, linen wrappings still wrinkled as if by lapping water. And her hair, her thick 
rippling hair; why, the whole form had almost glistened in the dim light.
  
  Julie spoke words. The lights were soft in the room at Shepheard's Hotel. He wanted to 
answer, but he couldn't. And then there was that other memory; that strange moment when 
he had turned in the confusion and the blur, and seen Elliott with those sad grey eyes 
watching him.
  
  Oscar hurried after Mr. Hancock and the two chaps from Scotland Yard as they marched 
right through the drawing rooms and into the Egyptian room. Oh, he never should have let 
them into the house. They had no right to come into this house. And now they were 
marching right up to the mummy case.
  
  "But Miss Julie will be so angry, sir. This is her house, sir. And you mustn't touch 
that, sir, why, it's Mr. Lawrence's discovery."
  
  Hancock stared at the five gold Cleopatra coins in their case.
  
  "But the coins could have been stolen in Cairo, sir. Before the collection was 
cataloged."
  
  "Yes, of course, you're absolutely right,"  Hancock said. He turned and glared at the 
mummy case.
  
  Julie poured the wine in his glass. He merely looked at it.
</pre>
<!--N=9400 M=9600 pt=-->
  
  "Won't you try to explain?"  she whispered." You recognized it. You knew it. That has 
to be it."
  
  For hours he'd sat there in silence. The late afternoon sun burned through the sheer 
curtains. The overhead fan churned slowly, monotonously, giving off a dull groan.
  
  She didn't want to cry again.
  
  "But it couldn't be ..."  No. She couldn't bring herself even to suggest it. Yet she 
thought of the woman again; of the gold tiara in her hair, now black and glossy as all 
the rest of her." It's not possible that it's she. ..."
  
  Slowly Ramses turned and looked at her. Hard and brilliant his blue eyes were.
  
  "Not possible!"  His voice was low, hoarse, no more than an agonized whisper." Not 
possible! You've dug up thousands of the Egyptian dead. You've raided their pyramids, 
their desert tombs, their catacombs. What is not possible!"
  
  "Oh, my God."  The tears flowed down her cheeks.
  
  "Mummies stolen, traded, sold,"  he said." Was there any man, woman or child ever 
buried in this land whose body has not been defiled, if not displayed, or dismembered? 
What is not possible!"
  
  For a moment it seemed he'd lose control altogether; but then he was quiet, merely 
staring at her again. And then his eyes went dim as if he had not seen her. He sat back 
in the little chair.
  
  "We don't have to stay in Cairo any longer if you don't want. ..."
  
  Again he turned slowly and looked at her. It was as if he were waking from a daze, that 
he had not just spoken to her.
  
  "No!"  he said," We cannot leave. Not now. I don't want to leave..."
  
  And then his voice trailed off as if he'd just realized what he was saying. He rose and 
walked slowly out of the room, not even glancing back at her.
  
  She saw the door close; she heard his tread in the hall; and then her tears flowed 
again.
  
  What was she to do? What would comfort him? If she used all her influence, could she 
possibly have the body in the museum removed from public view and given proper burial? 
Not likely. The request would seem whimsical and foolish. Why, countless royal mummies 
were on display!
  
  But even if she could accomplish such a thing, she feared it would not help now. It was 
the mere sight of the thing, not its desecration, which had crushed him.
  
  The two officers from Scotland Yard watched the man from the British Museum uneasily.
  
  "We should go now, sir. We don't have a court order to be disturbing the mummy's 
coffin. We came to check the coins, and we've done it."
  
  "Nonsense,"  Hancock said." We should check everything now while we have the court 
order. We came to see that the collection is intact. I want to see that the mummy's 
unharmed before I leave here."
  
  "But, sir,"  Oscar intervened.
  
  "Don't say another word, my good man. Your mistress ran off to Cairo and left a 
priceless treasure here. She did not have our permission."  He turned to the two officers 
of the law." Open the thing,"  he said sharply.
  
  "Well, I don't like this, sir, I really don't,"  Trent said.
  
  Hancock pushed past him and hefted the lid himself before the two men could stop him. 
Gallon tried to catch it before the bottom struck the floor. Oscar gave a little gasp.
  
  Inside stood the mummy, shrunken, blackened.
  
  "What the hell is going on here!"  Hancock raged.
  
  "And what exactly do you mean, sir?"  Trent asked.
  
  "Everything goes back to the museum now."
  
  "But, sir."
  
  "That's not the same mummy, you fool. That's from a peddler's shop in London! I saw it 
myself. It was offered to me for sale. Damn that woman! She's stolen the find of the 
century!"
  
  It was long past midnight. No more music came from the public rooms. Cairo slept.
  
  Elliott walked alone in the dark courtyard between the two wings of Shepheard's Hotel. 
His left leg was going numb; but he paid no heed to it. Now and then he glanced up at the 
figure pacing in the suite above; a shadow moving back and forth across the slatted 
blinds. Ramsey.
  
  Samir's room was dark. Julie's light had gone out an hour ago. Alex was long gone to 
bed, worried about Ramsey, and thoroughly confused as to whether Julie had fallen in love 
with a madman.
  
  The figure stopped. It moved to the blinds. Elliott stood stock-still in the chilly 
darkness. He watched Ramsey peer out at the sky, and perhaps at the great web of stars 
flung out over the rooftops.
  
  Then the figure disappeared altogether.
  
  Elliott turned and hobbled awkwardly towards the doors to the lobby. He had just 
reached the shadowy foyer beyond the front desk when he saw Ramsey come down the grand 
staircase and make for the doors, his loose mane of brown hair in unkempt tangles.
  
  I am mad, Elliott thought. I am madder than he has ever been.
  
  Firmly gripping his cane, he made to follow. When he emerged from the front doors, he 
saw the dark figure ahead of him, walking fast across the square. The pain in his leg was 
now so bad he had to grit his teeth, but he pressed on.
  
  Within a few minutes, Ramsey had reached the museum. Elliott watched him turn from the 
main entrance, and walk slowly to the far right side of the building, towards a light 
burning behind a barred window.
  
  The yellow light spilled out of the small rear alcove. The guard was slumped in the 
chair, snoring blissfully. The rear door was open.
  
  Elliott slowly entered the museum. He passed quickly through the empty chambers of the 
ground floor, past towering gods and goddesses. At last he reached the grand stairs and, 
clutching the railing, moved up step by step, hoisting his weight off his painful leg, 
trying not to make a sound in the thinning darkness.
  
  A gray murky light filled the corridor. The window at the far end was paling visibly. 
And there stood Ramsey beside the low shallow display case, in which the mass of the dead 
woman in her petrified rags gleamed like black coal. Ramsey bowed his head in the gray 
light, like a man praying.
  
  It seemed he whispered something in the dark. Or was he weeping? His profile was 
sharply clear, and so was the movement of his hand as he reached into his coat and drew 
out something that sparkled in the shadows. A glass vial full of luminescent liquid. Dear 
God, he cannot mean to do this. What is this potion that he would even attempt it? 
Elliott almost cried out. He almost went to Ramsey and tried to stay his hand. But when 
Ramsey opened the vial, when Elliott heard the faint grinding of the metal cap, he shrank 
to the far side of the corridor, and concealed himself from view behind a tall glass 
cabinet.
  
  How eloquent of suffering the distant figure was, poised there over the case, the open 
vial in his hand, the other hand rising to wipe his hair out of his forehead.
  
  Then Ramsey turned as if to go and came down the corridor towards Elliott without 
seeing him.
  
  Something changed in the light. It was the first palpable glow of the sun, a dull 
steel-grey radiance; a soft grey shimmer firing all the glass cases and cabinets of the 
long corridor.
  
  Ramsey turned. Elliott could hear him sigh. He could feel his torment. Ah, but this is 
madness; this is unspeakable.
  
  Helplessly, he watched as Ramsey approached the case again and broke loose the light 
wood-framed glass lid, and folded it silently backwards and away like the cover of a 
book, so that he might touch the dead thing inside.
  
  With sudden speed, he produced the vial again. The gleaming white liquid flowed in 
droplets down on the corpse as Ramsey passed the vial back and forth above it.
  
  "It's vain, it cannot possibly work,"  Elliott whispered halfaloud. He found himself 
shrinking even closer to the wall, peering now through the glass sides of the cabinet.
  
  In horror and fascination, he watched Ramsey smooth the fluid over the dead woman's 
limbs. He saw him bend tenderly, as if placing the glittering vial to her mouth.
  
  A hiss echoed through the darkness. Elliott let out a silent gasp. Ramsey stumbled 
back, pressing himself to the wall. The vial fell from his hand and rolled on the stone 
floor, a tiny bit of fluid still shimmering inside it. Ramsey stared down at the thing in 
front of him.
  
  Movement of the dark mass in the low shallow bed of the case. Elliott saw it. He heard 
a low raw sound like breath.
  
  Dear God, man, what have you done! What have you awakened!
  
  The wood of the case gave a violent creak; the thin wooden legs appeared to shudder. 
The thing inside the case was stirring, rising.
  
  Ramsey backed away into the corridor. A muffled cry escaped his lips. Beyond him, 
Elliott saw the figure sit up. The wooden case shattered and then collapsed, the noise 
echoing loudly throughout the museum. The thing stood square on its feet! Its great head 
of shaggy black hair poured down like thick smoke over its shoulders. The blackened skin 
was lightening, changing. A ghastly moan came out of the being. It raised its skeletal 
hands.
  
  Ramsey moved backward away from it. A desperate prayer escaped him, full of the old 
Egyptian names of the gods. Elliott clamped a hand over his mouth.
  
  Moving forward, its bare feet scratching the stones with the rough, dry sound of rats 
in the walls, the figure lowered its arms and reached out towards Ramsey.
  
  The light shone in its huge staring eyes, the eyelids eaten away, the hair thickening 
and writhing as it grew sleeker and blacker and tumbled down longer over the bony 
shoulders.
  
  But dear God, what were the patches of white all over it? They were the bones of the 
thing, the bare bones where the flesh had been torn away, perhaps centuries ago! Bare 
bone showing in the left leg, bare bone in the right foot, bare bones in the fingers 
struggling to reach Ramsey.
  
  It's not whole. You've raised a thing which is not whole.
  
</pre>
<!--N=9600 M=9800 pt=-->
  The light brightened in the window above. The first distinct rays pierced the ashen 
gloom. As Ramsey backed away again, passing Elliott, half stumbling towards the far 
railing of the stair, the thing came on, gaining speed until it reached the sunlight.
  
  And there it reached up as if trying to catch the rays, its moaning breaths coming 
rapid and desperate and full of panic.
  
  The shriveled flesh of the hands was now bronze. The face was bronze, and growing 
lighter and paler and more truly human as the sun struck it.
  
  It turned and rocked on its feet, as if drinking up the light, and the blood began to 
ooze from the torn wounds that everywhere exposed the skeleton.
  
  Elliott closed his eyes. For one moment he almost lost consciousness. He was aware of 
noise below. A door slamming far to the back of the huge building.
  
  He opened his eyes to see the thing drawing nearer. Glancing over his shoulder, he saw 
Ramses plastered to the rail of the stairs, staring in undisguised horror.
  
  God in heaven, drive it back. Elliott felt the burning in his chest, the familiar 
tightening. The pain shot down his left arm, and with all his strength he clutched the 
silver cane. He willed himself to breathe, to remain standing.
  
  The skeletal thing was filling out. Its flesh was now the color of Elliott's own flesh; 
and the hair a great wavy mop veiling its shoulders completely. And its clothing-even its 
clothing had changed. Its clothing was once again white linen where the elixir had 
splashed. The creature bared its white teeth to the roots as it moaned. Its breasts 
heaved and the ragged linen fell loose from the womanly shape, tangling in the legs that 
trudged doggedly forward.
  
  Its eyes were fixed on the man at the end of the hall. Its breath came in heaves. Its 
mouth became a grimace.
  
  Noises from below. The shrill sound of a whistle. A man shouting in Arabic.
  
  Ramses reeled. They were coming up the staircase. Their shouts could only mean that 
they had seen him.
  
  In panic, he turned back to the female figure drawing ever closer.
  
  A rasping cry escaped her lips.
  
  "Ramses!"
  
  The Earl closed his eyes. Then he opened them again and stared at the skeletal hands 
outstretched as the woman passed him.
  
  There was a cry of" Halt!"  and then a shot. The creature screamed and clamped her 
fingers over her ears. She staggered backwards. Ramses had been struck by the bullet, and 
pivoted to face the men coming up the stairs. Desperately he turned back to the female. 
Another volley of shots! The deafening roar resounded through the corridor. Ramses fell 
back against the marble rail.
  
  The female shuddered, hands still covering her ears. She appeared to lose her balance, 
staggering between the stone sarcophagi on the opposite side of the hall. When the 
whistle shrieked again, she roared in terror.
  
  "Ramses!"  It was the cry of a wounded animal.
  
  GAIN, ELLIOT almost lost consciousness. Again he closed his eyes, and struggled to fill 
his lungs with air. His left hand, clutching the walking stick, was now entirely numb.
  
  He could hear the sounds of the guards dragging Ramses down the stairs. Clearly Ramses 
was fighting. But there were too many of them.
  
  And the woman! She'd disappeared. Then he heard her feet scraping the stone floor 
again. He peered through the glass beside him to see her retreating to the far end of the 
hall. Whimpering, her breath still coming in gasps, she vanished through a side door.
  
  All sound had died away below. Apparently Ramses had been removed from the museum. But 
undoubtedly men would come to search within minutes.
  
  Ruthlessly ignoring the pain in his chest, Elliott hurried down the corridor. He 
reached the side door in time to see the female just disappearing from view at the foot 
of a service stair. Quickly he turned back, glancing under the display cases. There lay 
the vial, still gleaming in the grey light. Going down on one knee, he managed to get 
hold of it; and closing its cap, he put it in his coat.
  
  Then, fighting a wave of dizziness, he crept down the stairs after the female, his 
numbed left leg almost tripping him. Halfway down he saw her-bewildered, staggering, one 
clawlike hand raised as if groping in the dimness.
  
  A door opened suddenly, leaking yellow light into the passage; and a servant woman 
emerged, her hair and body draped in the Moslem manner by a garment of black wool. She 
carried a mop in her right hand.
  
  At once she saw the skeletal figure approaching, and she let out a shrill scream, the 
mop falling from her hands. She fled back into the lighted room.
  
  A low hiss came out of the wounded one and then that awful roar again as she went after 
the serving maid, skeletal hands out as if to stop the piercing scream.
  
  Elliott moved as fast as he could. The screams stopped before he reached the door of 
the lighted room. As he entered, he saw the body of the servant woman slumping, dead, to 
the floor. Her neck had apparently been broken and the flesh torn from her cheek. Her 
glassy black eyes stared at nothing. And the ragged wounded one stepped over her and 
moved towards a small mirror over the washbasin on the wall.
  
  A wretched agonized sobbing broke from her when she saw her reflection. Gasping, 
shuddering, she reached out and touched the glass.
  
  Again, Elliott almost collapsed. The sight of the dead body and the ghastly creature 
before the glass were more than he could bear. But a ruthless fascination sustained him, 
as it had all along. He must use his wits now. Damn the pain in his chest and the panic 
rising like nausea in his throat.
  
  Quickly he closed the door of the room behind him. The noise startled her. She wheeled 
about, hands poised again for the attack. For a moment, he was paralyzed by the full 
horror of what he now beheld. The light from the ceiling bulb was merciless. Her eyes 
bulged from their half-eaten sockets. White rib bones gleamed through a huge wound in her 
side. Half of her mouth was gone, and a bare stretch of clavicle was drenched in oozing 
blood.
  
  Dear God, what must her suffering be! Poor, tragic being!
  
  Giving a low growl, she advanced on him. But Elliott spoke quickly in Greek:
  
  "Friend,"  he said." I am a friend and offer you shelter."  And as his mind went blank 
on the ancient tongue, he switched to the Latin:" Trust in me. I shall not let you come 
to harm."
  
  Not taking his eyes off her for a second, he groped for one of several black cloaks 
hanging on the wall. Yes, what he wanted- one of those shapeless robes worn by Moslem 
women in public. It was easily large enough to drape her from head to toe.
  
  Fearlessly, he approached her, throwing the cloak over her head and winding it over her 
shoulders, and at once her hands went up to assist, closing it over her face save for her 
frightened eyes.
  
  He ushered her out into the corridor, closing the door behind him to conceal the dead 
body. Noises and shouts were coming from the floor above. He could hear voices coming 
from a room at the far end of the hall. Spotting the service door to his right, he opened 
it, and led her out into the alleyway, where the bright sun came down upon them both.
  
  Within moments, he was clear of the building. And they had entered the great endless 
crowd of Moslems, Arabs and Westerners one saw everywhere in Cairo, thousands of 
pedestrians moving in all directions, despite the blast of motor-car horns and the 
progress of donkey-drawn carts.
  
  The woman stiffened when she heard the motor horns. At the sight of a motor car rocking 
past her, she drew back, crying through clenched teeth. Again, Elliott spoke to her in 
Latin, reassuring her that he would take care of her, he would find her shelter.
  
  What she understood he could not possibly guess. Then the Latin word for food came from 
her in a low, tortured voice." Food and drink,"  she whispered. She murmured something 
else, but he did not understand. It sounded like a prayer or a curse.
  
  "Yes,"  he said in her ear, the Latin words coming easily now that he knew she 
understood them." I shall provide all you require. I shall take care of you. Trust in me."
  
  But where could he take her? Only one place came to mind. He had to reach old Cairo. 
But did he dare put the creature into a motor taxi? Seeing a horse-drawn cab passing, he 
hailed it. She climbed willingly up to the leather seat. Now, how was he to do it, when 
he could scarce breathe and his left leg was almost useless? He planted his right foot 
firmly on the step and swung himself up with his right arm. And then, near to collapse as 
ever he'd been in his life, he slumped down beside the hunched figure and told the driver 
where he must go with his last breath.
  
  The cab shot forward, the driver shouting at the pedestrians and cracking his whip. The 
poor creature beside him cried brokenheartedly, drawing the veil completely over her face.
  
  He embraced her; he ignored the cold hard bone he could feel through the thin black 
cloth. He held tight to her and, gradually catching his breath, told her again in Latin 
that he would care for her, that he was her friend.
  
  As the cab sped out of the British district, he tried to think. But shocked and in 
pain, he could achieve no rational explanation for himself for what he'd witnessed or 
what he'd done. He only knew on some inchoate level that he'd seen a miracle and a 
murder; and that the former meant infinitely more to him than the latter; and he was set 
now upon an irrevocable course.
  
  Julie was only half-awake. Surely she was misunderstanding the British official who 
stood in the door.
  
  "Arrested? For breaking into the museum? I don't believe it."
  
  "Miss Stratford, he's been wounded, badly. There seems to be some confusion."
  
  "What confusion?"
  
  The doctor was furious. If the man was badly wounded, he should be in hospital, not in 
the back of the jail.
  
  "Make way,"  he shouted to the uniformed men in front of him." What in God's name is 
this, a firing squad?"
  
  No less than twenty rifles were pointed at the tall blue-eyed man standing against the 
wall. Dried blood covered the man's shirt. The shoulder had been blown away from his 
coat. There was dried blood there as well. Panic-stricken, he stared at the doctor.
  
  "Come no closer!"  he cried." You will not examine me. You will not touch me with your 
medical instruments. I am unharmed and I want to leave this place."
  
  "Five bullets,"  whispered the officer in the doctor's ear." I saw the wounds, I tell 
you. He can't possibly have withstood such a-"
  
  "Let me have a look at you!" The doctor attempted to move in.
  
  Instantly the man's fist shot towards him, knocking the black bag to the ceiling. One 
of the rifles went off as the man charged the policemen, slamming several of them 
</pre>
<!--N=9800 M=10000 pt=-->
backwards, against the wall. The doctor fell to his knees. His glasses fell on the ground 
before him. He felt the heel of a boot come down on his hand as the soldiers stampeded 
into the hall.
  
  Again the rifle cracked. Shouts and curses in Egyptian. Where were his glasses! He must 
find his glasses.
  
  Suddenly someone was helping him to his feet. The glasses were in his hand and quickly 
he put them on.
  
  A civilized English face came into focus.
  
  "Are you all right?"
  
  "What the devil's happened? Where is he? Did they shoot him again?"
  
  "The man's as strong as a bull. He broke the back door out, bars and all. He's escaped."
  
  Thank God, Alex was with her. No one could find Elliott. Samir had gone on to the 
police station to find out what he could. As she and Alex were ushered into the office, 
she saw with relief that it was the governor's assistant. Miles Winthrop, and not the 
governor himself. Miles had gone to school with Alex. Julie had known him since he was a 
little boy.
  
  "Miles, this is a misunderstanding,"  Alex said." It has to be."
  
  "Miles,"  she said." Do you think you can get him released?"
  
  "Julie, the situation is more complicated than we realized. First off, the Egyptians 
aren't too fond of those who break into their world-famous museum. But now there's a 
theft and a murder to be considered as well."
  
  "What are you talking about!"  Julie whispered.
  
  "Miles, Ramsey couldn't murder anybody,"  Alex said." That's patently absurd."
  
  "I hope you're right, Alex. But there's a maid dead in the museum with her neck broken. 
And a mummy's been stolen from a display case on the second floor. And your friend has 
escaped the jail. Now, tell me, both of you. How well do you really know this man?"
  
  Running at full sprint across the roof, he took the alleyway before him in one leap. 
Within seconds, he covered another roof, and dropped down to another, and then cut across 
another narrow street.
  
  Only then did he look back. His pursuers had lost him. He could hear the faint, very 
distant crack of the rifle. Perhaps they were shooting at each other. He did not care.
  
  He dropped down into the street and ran. Within a short distance, the street became an 
alley. The houses hemming him in had high windows covered over with wooden screens. He 
