and overwrought and generally miserable as he had looked the day before.
  
  "Yes, I know."  Elliott sighed." But my dear, he's your next of kin and-"
  
  "Give me space to breathe, Elliott. You know I love Alex, I always have. But a marriage 
to me may not be the best thing for him. And I've been perfectly honest about it all 
along."
  
  "I know, Julie, believe me, I know. I always have. But your friend-" He gestured to the 
distant figure of Ramsey, who was watching all the goings-on of the harbour with obvious 
excitement." How are we not to worry? What are we to do?"
  
  She could not resist him. That had always been the case. One night several months back, 
when she'd had too much champagne and there'd been entirely too much dancing, she'd told 
Elliott she was more in love with him than she'd been with Alex. If he'd been free and 
asking for her hand, it would have been a fait accompli. Of course Alex had thought she 
was joking. But there had been a strange secret look in her eye that flattered Elliott 
immensely. And he saw a pale flicker of that same look now. And what a liar he was. What 
a liar he was being just now.
  
  "All right, Elliott,"  she said. She kissed him on the cheek, and he loved it." I don't 
want to hurt Alex,"  she whispered.
  
  "Yes, darling,"  he said." Of course."
  
  There was a violent blast from the steam whistle. The last
  
  call for boarding passengers. Parties had broken up in the staterooms, and a steady 
stream of guests was going ashore.
  
  Suddenly Ramsey came pounding towards them. He spun Julie around as if he didn't 
realize his own strength. She stared blankly.
  
</pre>
<!--N=6600 M=6800 pt=-->
  "Feel it, Julie, the vibrations. I must see these engines."
  
  Her face softened at once. It was as if his excitement were contagious.
  
  "Of course you must. Elliott, excuse me. I have to take Ramse ... I mean Mr. Ramsey ... 
to the engine room, if it can possibly be arranged."
  
  "Allow me,"  Elliott said agreeably, motioning for a young officer in a crisp white 
uniform who had just come out on deck.
  
  Alex was unpacking already when Elliott entered the little drawing room between their 
staterooms. Two steamer trunks stood open. Walter moved to and fro with armfuls of 
clothes.
  
  "Well, this is pleasant, isn't it?"  Elliott said, surveying the little couch and 
chairs, the tiny portal. There had not been much time to arrange for proper 
accommodations, but Edith had stepped in finally and seen to everything herself.
  
  "You look tired, Father. Let me order you some tea."
  
  The Earl eased himself into the little gilded fauteuil. Tea did sound rather nice. What 
was that fragrance? Were there flowers in this room? He saw none. Only the champagne in 
its glistening ice bucket and the glasses ready on the silver tray.
  
  Then he remembered. The morning glory he had crushed into his pocket. It was still 
giving off a latent perfume.
  
  "Yes, tea would be fine, Alex, but there's no hurry,"  he murmured. Reaching into his 
pocket, he found the mangled little blossom and drew it out and lifted it to his nose.
  
  A very pretty scent indeed. And then he thought of that conservatory, overgrown 
fantastically with leaves and blossoms. He looked at the morning glory. As he watched, it 
straightened, the creases in its waxy petals disappearing. It opened completely and 
within seconds had become again a perfect bloom.
  
  Alex was talking, but Elliott did not hear him. He merely looked stupidly at the 
flower. Then he crushed it again, tightly in the palm of his hand.
  
  Slowly he looked up to see that Alex was just putting down the telephone.
  
  "Tea in fifteen minutes,"  Alex said." What's the matter, Father? Father, you're white 
as a-"
  
  "Nothing. No. It's nothing. I want to rest now. Call me when the tea comes."
  
  He stood up, the flower clenched still in his fist.
  
  When he had shut the door of his stateroom, he leaned against it, the sweat flooding 
down his back. He opened his hand. Again the blossom sprang back from a crushed and 
broken thing into a perfect flower, the blue-and-white petals lengthening before his eyes.
  
  For an endless time, it seemed, he stared at it. The tiny bit of green leaf at its base 
curled as he watched. Then he realized he was looking at himself in the mirror. The 
grey-haired, partially crippled Earl of Rutherford, handsome still at fifty-five, though 
every step he took was an agony. He let go his walking stick, ignoring it as it fell, and 
with his left hand felt of his grey hair.
  
  He could hear Alex calling him. The tea had already come. Carefully he took out his 
wallet. He crushed the flower again and slipped it into the leather folds. Then he bent 
over very slowly and picked up his cane.
  
  In a daze, it seemed, he stared at his son, who poured the tea for him.
  
  "You know, Father,"  Alex said," I'm beginning to think it's going to work out after 
all. I've had a good look at Ramsey. He's quite a handsome fellow, but he's too old for 
her, don't you think?"
  
  Oh, but this was too much fun, this great floating iron palace with little shops on 
board, and a great banquet room and a dance floor where musicians would later play!
  
  And his quarters, why, never as a King had he had such splendid quarters aboard a 
seagoing vessel. He was laughing almost foolishly as the stewards finished unpacking the 
very last of Lawrence Stratford's clothes.
  
  Samir closed the door after they'd gone, then turned and drew out a great deal of paper 
money from his coat.
  
  "This will take care of your wants for a long time, sire, only you must not show it all 
at one time."
  
  "Yes, my loyal one. That was the common wisdom when I'd slip out of the palace as a 
boy."  He gave another exuberant
  
  laugh. He couldn't help himself. The ship even contained a library and a small cinema; 
and then all the marvels below deck. And the gentle, elegant members of the crew-all of 
whom had the manners of gentlemen-had told him he might move about as he wished.
  
  "Your coin was worth a great deal more, sire, but I had little room to bargain."
  
  "As they say in this day and age, Samir, don't give it another thought. And you are 
correct in your estimation of Lord Rutherford. He believes. In fact, I should say he 
knows."
  
  "But it's Henry Stratford that presents the danger. Would a fall from the deck on the 
high seas be justice?"
  
  "Not wise. It would destroy Julie's peace of mind. The more I learn of this age, the 
more I understand its complexities, its highly developed concepts of justice. They are 
Roman, but they are something more. We shall keep an eye on the progress of Mr. Henry 
Stratford. When his presence becomes more of a trial to his cousin, then perhaps his 
death will be the better of two evils, and you need not worry about that part of it. I 
shall do it alone."
  
  "Yes, sire. But if for any reason you do not want this task, I shall be more than happy 
to kill this man myself."
  
  Ramses laughed softly. How he liked this one; so shrewd, yet honest; patient, yet 
keenly clever as well.
  
  "Maybe we should kill him together, Samir,"  he said." But whatever the case I am 
ravenous. When do we take this great meal together on the pink tablecloths amid the great 
potted palms?"
  
  "All too soon, sire, and please be ... careful."
  
  "Samir, do not worry,"  Ramses said. He took Samir's hand." I have my instructions 
already from Queen Julie. I am to eat only one item of fish, one item of fowl, one item 
of meat, and not all at the same time."
  
  It was Samir's turn to laugh softly.
  
  "Are you unhappy still?"  Ramses asked.
  
  "No, sire. I am very happy. Don't ever be disappointed in my sombre expression. I have 
seen more in my life, as of this moment, than I ever dreamed I would see. When Henry 
Stratford is dead, I shall ask for nothing more."
  
  Ramses nodded. His secret was safe forever with this one, he knew it, though he could 
not fully understand this quality of wisdom and resignation. He had never known it when 
he was mortal. He didn't know it now.
  
  IT WAS a sumptuous first-class dining room, crowded already with gentlemen in white tie 
and tails and ladies in low-cut dresses. When Julie came in and took her chair, Alex rose 
to assist her. Henry and Elliott, already seated opposite, also rose, and though Julie 
nodded to Elliott, she found herself incapable of looking at her cousin.
  
  She turned to Alex, and placed her hand on his. Unfortunately she could not help 
overhearing Henry continuing to talk angrily in Elliott's ear. Something about Alex being 
a fool that he could not have stopped Julie from taking this trip.
  
  Alex, staring down at the plate before him, seemed somewhat at a loss. Was this the 
time or place for truth? She felt she must be honest from the beginning, or matters would 
only become worse for Alex, and she must see that they did not.
  
  "Alex,"  she said in a low voice," I may stay in Egypt. I don't know what my plans are. 
You know sometimes, my darling, I think you need someone as good as you are."
  
  He wasn't surprised by her words. He thought for only a moment before answering." But 
how could I want anyone better than you? I'll follow you into the jungles of the Sudan if 
that's where you want to go."
  
  "You don't know what you're saying."
  
  He bent forward, his voice dropping to the most intimate whisper." I love you, Julie. 
Everything else in my life I take for granted. But not you. And you're more precious to 
me than all the rest put together. Julie, I mean to fight for you, if that's what must be 
done."
  
  What could she possibly say to him that would not wound him? He looked up suddenly. 
Ramses and Samir were here.
  
  For a moment, she was speechless. Ramses was a vision in her father's white boiled 
shirt and beautifully cut tailcoat. As he took his seat, his every gesture seemed more 
graceful and more decorous than those of the Englishmen around him. He veritably 
glistened with vigour and well-being. The smile he flashed was like a light.
  
  Then something happened. He stared at Julie's bare shoulders, at the plunging neck of 
her gown. He stared in particular at the tiny shadow between her half-naked breasts. And 
Alex stared at Ramses hi polite outrage. And Samir, taking a seat to the left of the 
Earl, was obviously already alarmed.
  
  She must do something. Still staring at her, as if he'd never laid eyes on a woman 
before, Ramses took the chair on her left.
  
  Quickly, she opened his napkin for him, whispering:
  
  "Here, in your lap. And stop staring at me. It's a ball gown, quite proper!"  She 
turned at once to Samir opposite." Samir, I'm so glad you could make this journey with 
us."
  
  "Yes, and here we are,"  Elliott said immediately, filling the silence." All having 
dinner together exactly as I'd planned. Isn't mat marvellous! Seems I got my way after 
ah1."
  
  "So you did."  Julie laughed. She was relieved suddenly that Elliott was there. He 
would smooth over one awkward moment after another; he did it instinctively. In fact, he 
probably couldn't stop himself. It was this buoyant charm among other things which kept 
him perpetually in demand.
  
  She dared not look directly at Henry, but she could see he was hopelessly uneasy. He 
was already drinking. His glass was half full.
  
  The waiters brought the sherry now, and the soup. Ramses had already reached for the 
bread. He had torn off a very large piece from the small loaf and eaten it whole.
  
  "And tell me, Mr. Ramsey,"  Elliott continued," how did you enjoy your stay in London? 
You weren't with us very long."
  
  Why the hell was Ramses smiling?
  
</pre>
<!--N=6800 M=7000 pt=-->
  "I found it an overwhelming place,"  he said with immediate enthusiasm." A curious 
blending of fierce wealth and inexplicable poverty. I do not understand how so many 
machines can produce so much for so few, and so little for so many..."
  
  "Sir, you're questioning the entire Industrial Revolution,"  Alex said, laughing 
nervously, which for him was most certainly a symptom of ill ease." Don't tell me you're 
a Marxist. It's rather seldom that we encounter radicals in our...our circle."
  
  "What is a Marxist! I am an Egyptian,"  Ramses said.
  
  "Of course you are, Mr. Ramsey,"  said Elliott smoothly." And you're no Marxist. How 
perfectly ridiculous. You knew our Lawrence in Cairo?"
  
  "Our Lawrence. Briefly I knew him."  Ramses was staring at Henry. Julie quickly lifted 
her soup spoon and, giving him a gentle nudge with her elbow, demonstrated how the soup 
was to be eaten. He didn't so much as glance at her. He picked up his bread, dipped it in 
the soup and began eating it, glaring at Henry again.
  
  "Lawrence's death came as a shock to me, as I'm sure it did to everyone,"  he said, 
dipping another enormous piece of bread." A Marxist is a type of philosopher? I do 
remember a Karl Marx. I discovered this person in Lawrence's library. A fool."
  
  Henry had not touched his soup. He drank another deep gulp of his Scotch and motioned 
for the waiter.
  
  "It's unimportant,"  Julie said quickly.
  
  "Yes, Lawrence's death was a terrible shock,"  Elliott said soberly." I was sure he had 
another good ten years. Maybe twenty."
  
  Ramses was dipping yet another enormous piece of the bread into the soup. And Henry was 
now staring at him with veiled horror, careful to avoid his eyes. Everyone was more or 
less quietly watching Ramses, who wiped up the very last of the soup now with another 
chunk of bread, and then downed the sherry, and wiped his lips with the napkin and sat 
back.
  
  "More food,"  he whispered." It's coming?"
  
  "Yes, it is, but slow down,"  Julie whispered.
  
  "You were a true friend of Lawrence?"  Ramses said to Elliott.
  
  "Absolutely,"  said Elliott.
  
  "Yes, well, if he were here, he'd be talking about his beloved mummy,"  said Alex with 
that same nervous laugh." As a matter of fact, why are you taking this trip, Julie? Why 
go back to Egypt when the mummy lies there in London waiting for examination? You know, I 
don't really understand. ..."
  
  "The collection's opened several avenues of research,"  Julie said. "We want to go to 
Alexandria and then perhaps Cairo..."
  
  "Yes, of course,"  Elliot said. He was clearly watching Ramses' reaction as the waiter 
set down the fish before him, a small portion in a delicate cream sauce." Cleopatra,"  he 
went on," your mysterious Ramses the Second claimed to have loved and lost her. And that 
happened in Alexandria, did it not?"
  
  Julie had not seen this coming. Neither had Ramses, who had laid down his bread and was 
staring at the Earl with a blank expression on his face. There came those dancing points 
of colour beneath the smooth skin of his cheeks.
  
  "Well, yes, there is that aspect of it,"  Julie struggled." And then we're going to 
Luxor, and to Abu Simbel. I hope you're all in fine form for an arduous journey. Of 
course if you don't want to continue ..."
  
  "Abu Simbel,"  Alex said." Isn't that where the colossal statues are of Ramses the 
Second?"
  
  Ramses broke off half the fish with his fingers and ate it. Then he ate the second 
half. A curious smile had broken out on Elliott's face, but Ramses didn't see it. He was 
staring at Henry again. Julie was going to start screaming.
  
  "Statues of Ramses the Great are everywhere, actually,"  Elliott said, watching Ramses 
mop up the sauce with the bread." Ramses left more monuments to himself than any other 
Pharaoh."
  
  "Ah, that's the one. I knew it,"  said Alex." The egomaniac of Egyptian history. I 
remember now, from school."
  
  "Egomaniac!"  Ramses said with a grimace." More bread!"  he said to the waiter. Then to 
Alex:" What is an egomaniac? If you please?"
  
  "Aspirin, Marxism, egomania,"  Elliott said." These are all new ideas to you, Mr. 
Ramsey?"
  
  Henry was becoming positively agitated. He had drunk the second glass of Scotch and now 
sat plastered to the back of his chair, merely staring at Ramses' hands as he ate.
  
  "Oh, you know,"  Alex said blithely." The fellow was a great braggart. He built 
monuments to himself all over the place. He bragged endlessly about his victories, his 
wives and his sons! So that's the mummy, and all this time I didn't realize."
  
  "What in the world are you talking about!"  Julie said suddenly.
  
  "Is there any other Egyptian King in history who won so many victories,"  Ramses said 
heatedly," and pleasured so many wives, and lathered so many sons? And surely you 
understand that in erecting so many statues, the Pharaoh was giving to his people exactly 
what they wanted."
  
  "Now, that's a novel view!"  Alex said sarcastically, laying down his knife and fork." 
You don't mean the slaves enjoyed being flogged to death in the burning sun to build all 
those temples and colossal statues?"
  
  "Slaves, flogged to death in the hot sun?"  Ramses asked." What are you saying! This 
did not happen!"  He turned to Julie.
  
  "Alex, that's merely one theory of how the monuments were completed,"  she said." No 
one really knows ..."
  
  "Well, I know,"  Ramses said.
  
  "Everyone has his theory!"  Julie said, raising her voice slightly and glaring at 
Ramses.
  
  "Well, for heaven's sake,"  Alex said," the man built enormous statues of himself from 
one end of Egypt to another. You can't tell me the people wouldn't have been a lot 
happier tending their flowerbeds. ..."
  
  "Young man, you are most strange!"  said Ramses." What do you know about the people of 
Egypt? Slaves, you speak of slaves when your slums are filled with starving children. The 
people wanted the monuments. They took pride in their temples. When the Nile overflowed 
its banks there could be no work in the fields; and the monuments became the passion of 
the nation. Labour wasn't forced. It didn't have to be. The Pharaoh was as a god, and he 
had to do what his people expected of him."
  
  "Surely you're sentimentalizing it a bit,"  said Elliott, but he was plainly fascinated.
  
  Henry had turned white. He was no longer moving at all. His fresh glass of Scotch stood 
untouched.
  
  "Not in the least,"  Ramses argued." The people of Egypt were proud of Ramses the 
Great. He drove back the enemies; he conquered the Hittites; he maintained the peace in 
Upper and Lower Egypt for sixty-four years of his reign! What other Pharaoh ever brought 
such tranquillity to the land of the great river! You know what happened afterwards, 
don't you?"
  
  "Reginald,"  Julie said under her breath," does this really matter so much!"
  
  "Well, apparently it matters to your father's friend,"  said Elliott." I suspect the 
ancient Kings were perfect tyrants. I suspect they beat their subjects to death if they 
didn't work on those absurd monuments. The pyramids, how for example-"
  
  "You are not so stupid, Lord Rutherford,"  said Ramses." You are ... how do you say ... 
baiting me. Were Englishmen whipped in the streets when they built your St. Paul's or 
Westminster Abbey? The Tower of London, this is the work of slaves?"
  
  "No one knows these answers,"  Samir said meekly." Perhaps we should attempt to-"
  
  "There's a great deal of truth in what you say,"  Elliott said, ignoring Samir." But 
with regard to the great Ramses, you must admit, he was an exceptionally immodest ruler. 
The stele which brag of his accomplishments are laughable."
  
  "Sir, really,"  Samir said.
  
  "They are nothing of the sort,"  said Ramses." This was the style of the times, the way 
the people wanted their ruler to represent himself. Don't you understand? The ruler was 
the people. For the people to be great, the ruler had to be great! The ruler was the 
slave of the people when it came to their wishes, then-needs, their welfare."
  
  "Oh, surely you don't mean the old fellow was a martyr!"  Alex scoffed. Never had Julie 
seen him so aggressive.
  
  "Perhaps it's not possible for a modern mind to comprehend an ancient mind so easily,"  
Elliott conceded." I wonder if the opposite is true. Whether a man of ancient times, 
brought to life again, in this era, could understand our values."
  
  "You're not so difficult to understand,"  Ramses said." You've learned to express 
yourselves too well for anything to remain veiled or mysterious. Your newspapers and 
books tell everything. Yet you are not so different from your ancient ancestors. You want 
love, you want comfort; you want justice. That is what the Egyptian farmer wanted when he 
went out to till his fields. That is what the labourers of London want. And as always the 
rich are jealous of what they possess. And greed leads to high crimes as it always has."
  
  He turned his eyes mercilessly on Henry, who was now staring back at him directly. 
Julie looked in desperation to Samir.
  
  "Why, you speak of this era as if you have nothing to do with it!"  Alex said.
  
  "So what you're saying,"  Elliott said," is that we're no better and no worse than the 
ancient Egyptian."
  
  Henry reached for his drink and suddenly knocked it over. Then he reached for the wine 
and drank it down. His white face was now moist all over. His lower lip was trembling. He 
looked for all the world like a man about to be seriously ill.
  
  "No, that is not what I'm saying,"  Ramses said thoughtfully." You are better. Better 
in a thousand ways. And yet you're still human. You haven't found all the answers yet. 
Electricity, telephones, these are lovely magic. But the poor go unfed. Men kill for what 
they cannot gain by their own labour. How to share the magic, the riches, the secrets, 
that is still the problem."
  
  "Ah, there you have it. Marxism, 1 told you,"  Alex said." Well, at Oxford they told us 
Ramses the Second was a bloody tyrant."
  
  "Be quiet, Alex,"  said Elliott dismissively. He turned to Ramses." Why does this 
concern you so, these questions of greed and power?"
  
  "Oxford? What is Oxford?"  Ramses asked, glancing at Alex. Then he stared again at 
Henry, and Henry moved his chair abruptly backwards. He appeared to be hanging on to the 
table as if to steady himself. The waiters, meantime, had taken the fish away and were 
</pre>
<!--N=7000 M=7200 pt=-->
setting down the roast chicken and potatoes. Someone poured another drink for Henry, 
which he emptied at once.
  
  "You're going to be ill,"  Elliott said to him under his breath.
  
  "Wait a minute,"  Alex said." You've never heard of Oxford!"
  
  "No, what is it?"  Ramses asked.
  
  "Oxford, egomania, aspirin, Marxism,"  Elliott said." Your head is in the clouds, Mr. 
Ramsey."
  
  "Yes, like that of a colossal statue!"  Ramses smiled.
  
  "But you're still a Marxist,"  Alex said.
  
  "Alex, Mr. Ramsey is not a Marxist!"  Julie said, unable any longer to contain her 
rage." And as I recall, your favorite subject at Oxford was sports, wasn't it? Boat races 
and football? You've never studied Egyptian history or Marxism, am I right?"
  
  "Yes, darling. I don't know a thing about ancient Egypt,"  he conceded, a bit 
crestfallen." But there is that poem, Mr. Ramsey, that poem about Ramses the Great by 
Shelley. You have heard it, have you not? Let's see, some damnable old teacher made me 
memorize it."
  
  "Perhaps we should return to the question of the journey,"
  
  Samir said," It shall be very hot in Luxor. Perhaps you will want to go only as far as-"
  
  "Yes, and the reasons for the journey,"  Elliott said." Are you investigating the 
claims made by 'the mummy'?"
  
  "What claims?"  Julie asked weakly." I don't know what you mean specifically. ..."
  
  "You know. You told me yourself,"  Elliott answered." And then there was your father's 
notebook, which I read, at your behest. The mummy's claim to be immortal, to have lived 
and loved Cleopatra."
  
  Ramses looked down at his plate. Deftly he broke off a joint of the chicken and ate 
half of it in two quick, delicate bites.
  
  "The museum will have to examine those texts,"  Samir said." It's too early to draw 
conclusions."
  
  "And is the museum content that you've left the collection locked up in Mayfair?"  
asked Elliott.
  
  "Frankly,"  Alex said," the whole thing sounded perfectly absurd to me. Romantic 
twaddle. An immortal being, living for a thousand years and then falling tragically in 
love with Cleopatra. Cleopatra!"
  
  "I beg your pardon,"  Ramses said. He devoured the remaining chicken and wiped his 
fingers again." At your famous Oxford, they said mean things about Cleopatra as well."
  
  Alex laughed frankly and cheerfully.
  
  "You don't have to go to Oxford to hear mean things about Cleopatra. Why, she was the 
trollop of the ancient world, a spendthrift, a temptress and an hysterical woman."
  
  "Alex, I don't want to hear any more of this schoolboy history!"  Julie said.
  
  "You have many opinions, young man,"  Ramses said with a chilling smile." What is your 
passion now? What interests you?"
  
  There was a silence. Julie couldn't help but notice the curious expression on Elliott's 
face.
  
  "Well,"  Alex said." If you were an immortal-an immortal who'd once been a great King, 
would you have fallen in love with a woman like Cleopatra?"
  
  "Answer the question, Alex,"  Julie said." What is your passion? It's not history, not 
Egyptology, not government. What would you say it is that makes you want to wake up in 
the morning?"  She could feel the blood rising in her face.
  
  "Yes, I would have fallen in love with Cleopatra,"  said
  
  Ramses." She could have charmed a god. Read between the lines of your Plutarch. The 
truth is there."
  
  "And what is the truth?"  Elliott asked.
  
  "That she was a brilliant mind; she had a gift for languages and for governing which 
defied reason. The greatest men of the time paid court to her. Hers was a royal soul in 
every sense of the word. Why do you think your Shakespeare wrote about her? Why do your 
schoolchildren know her name?"
  
  "Oh, come now. Divine right?"  said Alex." You sound much better when you are talking 
Marxist theory."
  
  "Which is what, precisely?"
  
  "Alex,"  Julie said sharply." You wouldn't know a Marxist if one punched you in the 
face."
  
  "You must understand, my lord,"  Samir said to Alex." We Egyptians take our history 
rather seriously. Cleopatra was by any standards a formidable Queen."
  
  "Yes, well said,"  Ramses said." And Egypt could use a Cleopatra now to rid it of 
British domination. She'd send your soldiers packing, you can be sure."
  
  "Ah, there you see, a revolutionary. And what about the Suez Canal? I suppose she'd say 
'No, thank you' for that? You do know what the Suez Canal is, don't you! Well, it was 
British financing that accomplished that little miracle, my friend, I hope you 
understand."
  
  "Oh, yes, that little trench you dug between the Red Sea and the Mediterranean. Did you 
whip the slaves in the hot sun to dig that trench? Do tell me."
  
  "Touche, old fellow, touche. Truth is, I haven't the foggiest notion."  Alex put down 
his fork and sat back, smiling at Henry." This has been the most exhausting dinner."
  
  Henry stared at him with the same expressionless glassy eyes with which he regarded 
everything else.
  
  "Tell me, Mr. Ramsey,"  said Elliott." Your personal opinion, if you will. Is this 
mummy truly Ramses the Great? An immortal who lived until the time of Cleopatra?"
  
  Alex laughed softly. He looked again at Henry, and this time apparently Henry's 
condition shocked him. He was about to say something when Ramses went on.
  
  "And what do you think, Lord Rutherford?"  Ramses asked." You read the notes of your 
friend Lawrence. Is there an immortal man in that mummy case in Julie's house in Mayfair?"
  
  Elliott smiled." No, there isn't,"  he said.
  
  Julie stared at her plate. Then slowly she looked up at Samir.
  
  "Of course not!"  Alex said." And it's about time somebody said so. When they take him 
to the museum and cut him up, they'll discover he was a scribe with a lively imagination."
  
  "Forgive me,"  Julie said." But I am so weary of all this. We'll be in Egypt soon 
enough, among the mummies and the monuments. Must we go on?"
  
  "I'm sorry, my dear,"  Elliott said, lifting his fork and taking a small morse! of 
chicken." I've rather enjoyed our conversation, Mr. Ramsey. I find your perspective on 
ancient Egypt absolutely riveting."
  
  "Oh? The present era is my fascination of late, Lord Rutherford. Englishmen such as 
yourself intrigue me. And as you were saying, you were a good friend of Lawrence, were 
you not?"
  
  Julie saw the change in Henry before she realized that Ramses was once again glaring at 
him. Henry shifted, lifted the empty glass in his hand, then realized it was empty and 
stared at it as if he did not know what to do with it, and then stared just as stupidly 
at the waiter who took it from him and gave him another drink.
  
  If Elliott noticed all this, he gave no sign.
  
  "We had our differences, Lawrence and I,"  he answered," but yes, we were very good 
friends. And we did agree upon one thing. We hoped mat our children would soon be happily 
married."
  
  Julie was stunned." Elliott, please."
  
  "But we needn't discuss this, you and I,"  Elliott said quickly. Obviously rudeness 
wasn't easy for him." There are other things I should like to discuss with you. Where you 
came from, who you really are. All those same questions I ask myself when I look into the 
mirror."
  
  Ramses laughed, but he was now angry. Julie could feel it.
  
  "You'll probably find my answers brief and disappointing. As for the marriage of Julie 
to your son, Lawrence believed it was Julie's choice. Let me see. How did he put it?"  He 
turned his eyes on Henry again." English is rather new to me, but my memory is 
exceptional. Ah, yes. 'Julie's marriage can wait forever.' My dear Henry, were those not 
the words?"
  
  Henry's lips worked silently, but only a faint moan came out of his lips. Alex was 
red-faced, hurt, looking at Ramses. Julie had to do something to stop this, but what?
  
  "Well, you certainly do seem to have been a close friend of Julie's father,"  Alex said 
almost sadly." Closer perhaps than we realized. Was there anything else that Lawrence 
made known to you before he died?"
  
  Poor, poor Alex! But this was all aimed at Henry, and in another moment things were 
going to explode.
  
  "Yes,"  Ramses said. Julie grabbed his hand and squeezed it, but he did not acknowledge 
this." Yes, that he thought his nephew was a bastard."  Again he glared at Henry." Am I 
right? 'You bastard.' Weren't those his last words?"
  
  Henry rose from the chair, upsetting it. He stumbled backwards as the chair went over 
with a thud on the carpeted floor. He stared at Ramses, his mouth open, a low sound 
coming from him, half gasp, half moan.
  
  "Good God,"  said Alex." Mr. Ramsey, you go too far."
  
  "Do I?"  asked Ramses, watching Henry.
  
  "Henry, you're drunk, old man,"  Alex said." I should help you to your room."
  
  "Please do not do this,"  Julie whispered. Elliott was studying both of them. He had 
not so much as looked up at Henry, who turned now and half stumbled towards the far door.
  
  Alex stared at his plate, his face reddening.
  
  "Mr. Ramsey, I think there's something you must understand,"  Alex said.
  
  "What is that, young man?"
  
</pre>
<!--N=7200 M=7400 pt=-->
  "Julie's father was plainspoken with those he loved."  Then something dawned on him." 
But ... you weren't there when he died, were you? I thought Henry was with him. Alone."
  
  Elliot was silent.
  
  "My, but this is going to be a very interesting trip,"  Alex said lamely." I must 
confess-"
  
  "It's going to be a disaster!"  Julie said. She could take this no more." Now, listen 
to me. All of you. I don't want any more talk of marriage; or of my father's death. I've 
had quite enough of both."  She rose to her feet." You must forgive me, but I'm leaving 
you now. I'll be in my cabin if you should need me."  She looked down at Ramses." But no 
more talk of these things, is that clear?"
  
  She gathered up her small evening bag and walked slowly through the dining room, 
ignoring those who were staring.
  
  "Oh, this is dreadful,"  she heard Alex say behind her. And
  
  then he was at her side." I am so sorry, darling, really! Things just got out of hand."
  
  "I want to go to my room, I told you,"  she said, walking faster.
  
  Nightmare. You are going to wake up, back in London, safe, and none of this will have 
happened. You did what you had to do. That creature is a monster and must be destroyed.
  
  He stood at the bar waiting for the Scotch, which seemed to be taking forever, and then 
he looked up and saw him-that thing, that thing that wasn't human, standing in the door.
  
  "Never mind,"  he growled under his breath. He turned and rushed through the little 
carpeted corridor to the deck. Slam of the door behind him, the thing was coming after 
him. He turned, his face stung by the wind, and almost fell on the narrow metal steps. 
The thing was only a few feet away from him, those big glassy blue eyes staring at him. 
He ran up the steps, the wind working against him as he ran along the deserted deck.
  
  Where was he going? How would he get away from it? He pushed open another door into a 
little corridor. Numbers he didn't recognize on the polished doors of the staterooms. He 
looked back; the thing had entered the corridor; it was pounding after him.
  
  "Damn you."  His voice was a whimper. Out on the deck again and this time the wind was 
so damp it was like rain. He couldn't see where he was going. He clutched the railing for 
a moment, looking down at the boiling grey sea.
  
  No! Get away from the railing. He rushed along until he saw another doorway, and ducked 
inside again. He felt the vibration right behind him, heard the thing breathing. His gun, 
where the hell was his gun?
  
  Turning, he fumbled in his pocket. The thing had hold of him. Dear God! He felt a large 
warm hand close over his. The gun was wrenched out of his fingers. Groaning, he slumped 
against the wall, but the thing held him up by his lapel, peering into his face. An ugly 
light flashed through the porthole of the door, illuminating the thing in irregular 
bursts.
  
  "A pistol, am I correct?"  the thing said to him." 1 read of it when perhaps I should 
have been reading of Oxford, egomania, aspirin and Marxism. It fires a small projectile 
of metal at high speed, as the result of intense combustion within the chamber behind the 
projectile. Very interesting, and useless when you are dealing with me. And were you to 
fire it, men would come and want to know why you did it."
  
  "I know what you are! I know where you came from."
  
  "Oh, you do! Then you realize that I know what you are. And what you have been up to! 
And I have not the slightest scruple about carrying you down to the coal furnaces which 
fuel this magnificent ship and feeding you to the fires which drive us now into the cold 
Atlantic."
  
  Henry's body convulsed. With every muscle he struggled, but he could not free himself 
from the hand that now locked on his shoulder, gently crushing the bones.
  
  "Listen to me, foolish one."  The thing drew in closer. He could feel its breath on his 
face." Harm Julie and I shall do it. Make Julie cry and I shall do it! Make Julie frown 
and I shall do it! For the sake of Julie's peace of mind, you live. There is nothing more 
to it. Remember what I say."
  
  The hand released him. He slumped towards the floor, only catching himself before he 
actually fell. He gritted his teeth, his eyes closing as he felt the warm stickiness 
inside his pants, and smelled his own waste. His bowels had cut loose.
  
  The thing stood there, its face veiled in shadow as it studied the gun which it held 
out to the grey light from the porthole in the door. Then it pocketed the gun and turned 
on its heel and left him.
  
  A wave of sickness rose; he saw blackness.
  
  When he awoke he was crouched in the corner of the passage. No one had passed, it 
seemed. Trembling, dizzy, he climbed to his feet and made his way to his stateroom. And 
once there he stood over the small toilet vomiting up the contents of his stomach. Only 
then did he strip off his soiled clothes.
  
  She was crying when he came in. She had sent Rita off to supper with the other servants 
on board. He did not even knock. He opened the door and slipped inside. She wouldn't look 
at him.
  
  She pressed her handkerchief to her eyes, but her crying wouldn't stop.
  
  "I'm sorry, my Queen. My gentle Queen. Believe me, I am."  When she looked up she saw 
the sadness in his face. He stood helplessly before her, the lamp behind him filling the 
edges of his brown hair with an uneven golden light.
  
  "Let it be for now, Ramses,"  she said desperately." I can't bear it, the knowledge 
that he did it. Let it be, I beg you. I only want us to be in Egypt together."
  
  He sat down on the settee beside her, towering over her, and gently he turned her and 
this time when he kissed her she melted completely, letting him enfold her, letting him 
breathe into her that powerful heat. She kissed his face, his cheek where the flesh was 
so taut over the bones, and then his closed eyes. She felt his hands tighten on her naked 
shoulders and she realized he was pushing her gown down and away from her breasts.
  
  She drew back, ashamed. She had led him on and she hadn't meant to.
  
  "I don't want it to happen,"  she said, her tears coming again.
  
  Not looking at him, she pushed the satin sleeves upwards. When finally their eyes met, 
she saw only patience, and that faint half smile, now tempered by the same sadness she'd 
seen before.
  
  He reached out for her, and she stiffened. But he merely adjusted the sleeves of her 
dress for her. And straightened the pearls around her neck. Then he kissed her hand.
  
  "Come out with me,"  he said in a low, soft voice, kissing her tenderly on her 
shoulder." The wind is cool and fresh. And they are playing music in the public rooms. 
Can we dance together to the music? Ah, this floating palace. It is paradise. Come with 
me, my Queen."
  
  "But Alex,"  she said." If only Alex ..."
  
  He kissed her throat. He kissed her hand again. He turned her hand over and pressed his 
lips to her palm. The heat coursed through her again. To stay in this room would be 
folly, unless, of course. But no. She could not let it happen, until it was really what 
she wanted with her whole soul.
  
  She might lose her soul utterly; that was the horror. There was a dim sense again of 
her world being destroyed.
  
  "Let's go, then,"  she said drowsily.
  
  He helped her to her feet. He took her handkerchief from her and wiped her eyes with it 
as if she were a child. Then he picked up her white fur from the arm of the chair and put 
it over her shoulders.
  
  They walked together along the windy deck and into the corridor and towards the grand 
ballroom-a lovely confection of gilded wood and satin wall panels, of drowsing palms and 
stained glass.
  
  He moaned as he looked at the distant orchestra." Oooh, Julie, this music,"  he 
whispered." It enslaves me."
  
  It was a Strauss waltz again, only there were many musicians here, and the sound was 
louder and richer, flooding the great room.
  
  No sign of Alex, thank God. She turned to him, and let him take her hand.
  
  With a great sweeping turn, he began to waltz with her, beaming down at her, and it 
seemed then nothing mattered. There was no Alex; there was no Henry; there had been no 
terrible death for her father which must be avenged.
  
  There was only this moment of dancing with him, round and round, beneath the soft 
iridescent chandeliers. The music surged; the other dancers seemed perilously close 
around them; but Ramses' steps were perfect for all their great breadth and strength.
  
  Wasn't it enough that he should be a mystery? she thought desperately. Wasn't it enough 
that he'd torn the veil away completely? Did he have to be irresistible? Did she have to 
fall so hopelessly in love?
  
  Far away, from the deep shadows of the darkly panelled bar, Elliott watched them 
dancing. They were going into the third waltz now, and Julie was laughing as Ramsey led 
her recklessly and madly, driving the other dancers out of his path.
  
  No one seemed to take offense at it. Everyone respects those who are in love.
  
  Elliott finished his whisky, then rose to go.
  
  When he reached Henry's door, he knocked once and then opened it. Henry sat hunched 
over on the small couch, a thin green robe wrapped around him, his legs naked and hairy 
beneath it, his feet bare. He appeared to be trembling, as if he were terribly cold.
  
  Elliott was appalled suddenly at the heat of his own anger. His voice came out hoarse 
and unfamiliar.
  
  "What did our Egyptian King see?"  he demanded." What happened in that tomb when 
Lawrence died!"
  
  Henry tried to turn away from him, in a pathetic moment of hysteria, as if he could 
claw his way through the wall. Elliott turned him around.
  
  "Look at me, you miserable little coward. Answer my question. What happened in that 
tomb!"
  
