  "I was trying to get what you wanted!"  Henry whispered. His eyes were sunken. There 
was a great bruise on his neck." I was ... trying to persuade him to advise Julie to 
marry Alex."
  
  "Don't lie to me!"  Elliott said. His left hand clutched at the silver walking stick, 
ready to lift it, to wield it like a club.
  
  "I don't know what happened,"  Henry pleaded." Or what it saw! It was wrapped up in the 
damned mummy case. What the hell could it have seen! Uncle Lawrence was arguing with me. 
He was upset. The heat... I don't know what happened. Suddenly he was lying on the floor."
  
  He slumped forward, elbows on his knees, head in his hands." I didn't mean to hurt 
</pre>
<!--N=7400 M=7600 pt=-->
him,"  he sobbed." Oh, God, I didn't mean to hurt him! I did what I had to do."  He bowed 
his head, fingers meshed in his dark hair.
  
  Elliott stared down at him. If this had been his son, life would have no meaning. And 
if this miserable creature was lying ... But he didn't know. He simply could not tell.
  
  "All right,"  he murmured." You have told me everything?"
  
  "Yes!"  Henry said." God, I have to get off this ship! I have to get away from it!"
  
  "But why does it despise you? Why did it try to kill you, and why does it seek to 
humiliate you?"
  
  There was a moment of silence. All he heard were Henry's desperate broken gasps. Then 
the thin white face was turned up again, the sunken dark eyes imploring him.
  
  "I saw it come alive,"  Henry said." I'm the only one other than Julie who really knows 
what it is. You know, but I'm the one who saw it. It wants to kill me!" He stopped, as if 
he feared losing control altogether. His eyes were dancing as he looked at the carpet." 
I'll tell you something too,"  he said, as he slumped back again on the couch." It's 
unnaturally strong, that thing. It could kill a man with its bare hands. Why it didn't 
kill me the first time it tried, I don't know. But it could succeed if it tried again."
  
  The Earl didn't respond.
  
  He turned and left the stateroom. He went out onto the deck. The sky was black over the 
sea, and the stars were, as always on a cloudless night over the ocean, wonderfully clear.
  
  He leaned on the railing for a long time, and then drew out a cheroot and lighted it. 
He tried to reason things out.
  
  Samir Ibrahaim knew this thing was immortal. He was travelling with it. Julie knew. 
Julie had been swept off her feet. And now in his sheer obsession with this mystery, he 
had let Ramsey know that he knew as well.
  
  Now, Ramsey clearly felt affection for Samir Ibrahaim. He felt something for Julie 
Stratford, though what that something was, still wasn't clear. But what did Ramsey feel 
for him? Maybe he would turn on him as he had on Henry," the only witness."
  
  But somehow that didn't make sense. Or at least if it did, it didn't frighten Elliott. 
It only fascinated him. And the whole question of Henry continued to puzzle him and repel 
him. Henry was a convincing liar. But Henry wasn't telling the whole truth.
  
  Nothing to do but wait, he figured. And do what he could to protect Alex, his poor 
vulnerable Alex, who had failed so miserably at dinner to conceal his growing hurt. He 
had to help Alex through this, make it clear to his son that he was going to lose his 
childhood sweetheart, for there was no longer the slightest doubt of that.
  
  But oh, how he himself was loving this. How secretly and completely it thrilled him. 
The truth was, no matter what the outcome, he was experiencing a rejuvenation because of 
this mystery. He was having the best time he'd had in years and years.
  
  If he leafed back through the happy memories of his life, there had been one tune only, 
when simply being alive had been this wondrous and strange. He'd been at Oxford then; 
he'd been only twenty; and he'd been in love with Lawrence Stratford, and Lawrence 
Stratford had been in love with him.
  
  The thought of Lawrence now destroyed everything. It was as if the icy wind off the sea 
had frozen his heart. Something had happened in that tomb, something Henry did not dare 
to confess to him. And Ramsey knew it. And no matter what else happened in this dangerous 
little venture, Elliott was going to discover the truth of the matter.
  
  BY THE fourth day out, Elliott realized that Julie would not dine again in the public 
rooms; that she would take all her meals in her stateroom from now on, and that Ramsey 
was probably dining with her.
  
  Henry had also disappeared from view altogether. Sullen, drunk, he remained in his room 
round the clock, seldom wearing anything other than trousers, a shirt and a smoking 
jacket. However, this did not prevent him from running a feirly steady card game with 
members of the crew, who were not anxious to be discovered gambling with a first-class 
passenger. The gossip was that Henry was winning quite a lot. But that had always been 
the gossip about Henry. He would lose sooner or later, and probably everything that he 
had made; that had been the rhythm of his descent since the beginning.
  
  Elliott could also see that Julie was going out of her way to be gentle with Alex. She 
and Alex took their afternoon walk on the deck, rain or shine. She and Alex danced now 
and then in the ballroom after supper. Ramsey was always there, watching with surprising 
equanimity, and ready at any moment to step in and become Julie's partner. But clearly it 
had been agreed that Alex should not be neglected by Julie.
  
  On brief shore excursions, which Elliott could not physically endure, Julie, Samir, 
Ramsey and Alex always traveled together. Alex invariably came back faintly repelled. He 
didn't like foreigners very much; Julie and Samir had been thoroughly entertained; and 
Ramsey was overwhelmed with enthusiasm for the things he'd seen, especially if he'd been 
able to find a cinema or an English-language bookshop.
  
  Elliott appreciated Julie's kindness to Alex. After all, this ship was no place for 
Alex to understand the full truth, and clearly Julie realized it. On the other hand, 
perhaps Alex already sensed that he'd lost the first major battle of his life; the truth 
was Alex was too pleasant and agreeable a person to reveal what he was feeling. Probably 
he did not know himself, Elliott figured.
  
  The real adventure of the voyage for Elliott was getting to know Ramsey, and watching 
Ramsey from afar, and realizing things about Ramsey which others didn't appear to notice. 
It helped immensely that Ramsey was a ferociously social being.
  
  By the hour Ramsey, Elliott, Samir and Alex played billiards together, during which 
time Ramsey discoursed on all manner of subjects and asked all kinds of questions.
  
  Modern science in particular interested him, and Elliott found himself rambling on by 
the hour about theories of the cell, the circulatory system, germs and other causes of 
disease. The whole concept of inoculation fascinated Ramsey.
  
  Almost every night Ramsey was in the library, poring over Darwin and Malthus or popular 
compendiums on electricity, the telegraph, the automobile and astronomy.
  
  Modem art was also of more than passing interest. He was powerfully intrigued by the 
Pointillists and the Impressionists, and the novels of the Russians-Tolstoy and 
Dostoevsky, only newly translated into English-swept him up utterly. Clearly the speed of 
his reading and absorption was magical.
  
  About the sixth day out, Ramsey acquired a typewriter. With the captain's permission he 
borrowed it from the ship's offices and thereafter he typed by the hour lists of what he 
meant to do, some of which Elliott managed to glimpse on trips to Ramsey's cabin. Common 
enough were entries such as" Visit the Prado in Madrid; ride in an aeroplane as soon as 
possible."
  
  Elliott finally realized something. This man never slept. He didn't have to. At any 
hour of the night Elliott could find Ramsey doing something somewhere. If he was not in 
the cinema or in the library-or typing away in his room-then he was with the crew in the 
map room or the radio room. They had not been on board two days before Ramsey knew all 
the crew by name; and most of the staff as well. His capacity to seduce people into 
almost anything could not be overestimated.
  
  On one very eerie morning, Elliott entered the ballroom to see a handful of musicians 
playing steadily for Ramsey, who danced alone, a curious slow and primitive dance much 
like that of Greek men today in their seaside tavernas. The figure of the lone dancing 
man, his white long-sleeve shirt open to the waist, had torn at Elliott's heart. It 
seemed a crime to spy on such a thing which came so totally from the soul. Elliott had 
turned away, going out on the deck to smoke in his own solitude.
  
  That Ramsey was so accessible, that was a great surprise. But the oddest part of the 
whole exhilarating affair was how much Elliott was coming to like this mysterious 
creature.
  
  In fact, if he dwelt on that aspect of it, he would feel real pain. He thought back 
many times on his hasty words before they'd left-"I want to know you."  How true that had 
been. How tantalizing all this; how wondrously satisfying.
  
  And then the agony; the fear: something beyond all imagining is here! Elliott did not 
wish to be closed off from it.
  
  And how remarkable that his son, Alex, found Ramsey only peculiar and" funny"  and not 
at all genuinely intriguing. But then what did Alex find intriguing? He'd made fast 
friends of the type of fast friends he always made with dozens of other passengers. He 
was having a good time, it seemed, as he always did, no matter what else was happening. 
And that will be his salvation, Elliott thought. That he feels nothing too deeply.
  
  As for Samir, he was silent by nature; and he never said much no matter how the 
conversation raged between Elliott and Ramsey. But there was an almost religious quality 
about his attitude towards Ramsey. And he had become a complete servant to the man, that 
was obvious. He became agitated only when Elliott pressed Ramsey for opinions on the 
subject of history. And so did Julie.
  
  "Explain what you mean,"  Elliott asked when Ramsey said that Latin made possible a 
whole new kind of thinking." Surely the ideas came first and then the language to express 
them."
  
  "No, that's not true. Even in Italy itself where the tongue was born, the language made 
possible the evolution of ideas which would have been impossible otherwise. Same 
partnership of languages and ideas in Greece as well, undoubtedly.
  
  "But I shall tell you the strange thing about Italy. It is that culture developed there 
at all, for the climate is so pleasant. One must usually have a radical change of weather 
during the year for civilization to progress. Look at the people of the jungles and the 
far north, utterly limited, because the climate is the same all year round- ..."
  
  Julie would almost invariably interrupt these lectures. Elliott could hardly bear it.
  
  Julie and Samir also became uneasy when Ramsey burst out with statements from the 
heart, such as" Julie, we must be done with the past as quickly as we can. There is so 
much to be discovered. X-rays, Julie, do you know what they are! And we must go to the 
North Pole in an aeroplane."
  
  These remarks amused other people mightily. In fact, other passengers, charmed and 
seduced to a one, seemed to regard Ramsey as not a superintelligent being so much as one 
who was slightly retarded. Overly sophisticated themselves, never guessing the reason 
behind his odd exclamations, they treated him tenderly and indulgently, never availing 
themselves of the information he would give out at a moment's provocation.
  
  Not so with Elliott, who pumped him mercilessly." Ancient battle. What was it really 
like! I mean, we've seen the great reliefs on the temple of Ramses the Third. ..."
  
  "Ah, now that was a brilliant man, a worthy namesake..."
  
  "What did you say?"
  
  "A worthy namesake of Ramses the Second, that's all, go on."
  
  "But did a Pharaoh himself truly fight!"
  
  "Oh, yes, of course. Why, he rode at the head of his troops; he was symbol in action. 
Why, in one battle, the Pharaoh himself might crush two hundred skulls with his bludgeon; 
he might make his way across the battlefield, executing the wounded and dying in the same 
manner. When he retired to his tent, his arms would be drenched in blood to the elbows. 
But remember, it was expected, you see. If the Pharaoh fell ... well, the battle would be 
over."
  
  Silence.
  
</pre>
<!--N=7600 M=7800 pt=-->
  Ramsey:" You don't want to know these things, do you? And yet modern warfare is 
ghastly. That recent war in Africa; men were blown apart by gunpowder. And the Civil War 
in the United States, what a horror. Things change, but they do not change. ..."
  
  "Exactly. Could you yourself do such a thing? Crush skulls one after another?"
  
  Ramsey smiled." You are a brave man, aren't you, Lord Elliott, Earl of Rutherford. Yes, 
I could do it. So could you, if you were there, and you were Pharaoh; you could do it."
  
  The ship plowed on through the grey sea. The coast of Africa loomed. The party was 
almost over.
  
  It had been another perfect night. Alex had retired early, and Julie had been left 
alone to dance with Ramses for hours. She'd drunk a little too much wine.
  
  And now as they stood in the tiny low-ceilinged passage outside her stateroom, she felt 
as always the wrenching, the temptation and the desperation that she mustn't give in to 
it.
  
  It caught her utterly off guard when Ramses spun her around, crushed her to his chest 
and kissed her more roughly than usual. There was a painful urgency to it. She found 
herself fighting, then drawing back on the edge of tears, her hand raised to hit him. She 
didn't.
  
  "Why do you try to force me?"  she said.
  
  The look in his eyes frightened her.
  
  "I'm hungry,"  he said, all semblance of courtesy lost," hungry for you, for 
everything. For food and drink and sunshine and life itself. But above all, for you. It 
is a pain in me! I grow weary of it."
  
  "God!"  she whispered. She put her hands up delicately to cover her face. Why was she 
resisting? For the moment, she didn't know.
  
  "It's what it does to me, the potion in my veins,"  he said." I need nothing, yet 
nothing fills me. Only love, perhaps. And so I wait."  His voice grew quieter," I wait 
for you to love me. If that is what is required."
  
  She laughed suddenly. How clear it all was.
  
  "Ah, but with all your wisdom, you have it backwards,"  she said." What is required is 
that you love me."
  
  His face went blank. Then slowly he nodded. He seemed utterly at a loss for words. She 
could not guess what he was really thinking.
  
  Quickly she opened the door and went inside and sat down alone on the sofa. She put her 
face in her hands. How childish it had sounded. And yet it was true, it was 
heartbreakingly true. And she began to cry softly, hoping Rita would not hear her.
  
  Twenty-four hours, the navigator had told him, and we shall dock in Alexandria.
  
  He leaned on the railing of the deck. And peered into the thick mist which covered the 
water completely.
  
  It was four o'clock. Not even the Earl of Rutherford was about. Samir had been fast 
asleep when last Ramses visited their rooms. And so he had the deck to himself.
  
  He loved it. He loved the deep rumble of the engines through the great steel hull. He 
loved the ship's pure power. Ah, the paradox of twentieth-century man amid his great 
machines and inventions, for he was the same two-legged creature he had ever been, and 
yet his inventions were begetting inventions.
  
  He drew out a cheroot-one of the sweet, mild smokes which the Earl of Rutherford had 
given him, and cupping his hand around the match carefully lighted it. He could not see 
the smoke as it disappeared, yet the thing tasted divine. He closed his eyes and savored 
the wind, and let himself think of Julie Stratford again now that she was safely 
barricaded in her little bedchamber.
  
  But Julie Stratford faded. It was Cleopatra he saw. Twenty-four hours and we shall be 
in Alexandria.
  
  He saw the conference room in the palace of long ago, the long marble table, and she 
the young Queen-young as Julie Stratford was now-conversing with her ambassadors and 
advisers.
  
  He watched from an antechamber. He had been gone for a long time, wandering far to the 
north and to the east, into kingdoms that had not been known to him at all in earlier 
centuries. And returning the night before, had gone directly to her bedchamber.
  
  All night long they'd made love; the windows had been open to the sea; she had been as 
hungry for him as he had been for her; for though he had had a hundred women in the 
preceding months, he loved only Cleopatra. So feverish his lovemaking had been that 
finally he had almost hurt her; yet she had invited him to go on, her arms holding him 
tight, her body again and again receiving him.
  
  The audience was over. He watched her dismiss her courtiers. He watched her rise from 
her chair and come towards him-a tall woman with magnificent bones, and a long slender 
neck beautifully exposed, her rippling black hair swept back from her face into a circle 
on the back of her head in the Roman manner.
  
  There was a vaguely defiant expression on her face, and a lift to her chin which 
accentuated it. It gave an immediate impression of strength, badly needed to temper 
innate seductiveness.
  
  Only when she had drawn the curtain did she turn to him and smite, her dark eyes firing 
beautifully.
  
  There had been a time in his life when dark-eyed beings were all he knew; he alone was 
the blue-eyed one because he had drunk the elixir. Then he traveled to distant lands, 
lands of which Egyptians knew nothing; and he met pale-eyed mortal men and women. And 
dazzling though these things were, brown eyes for him remained the true eyes, the eyes he 
could fathom instantly.
  
  Julie Stratford's eyes were deep brown, and large, and full of easy affection and 
response, as Cleopatra's eyes had been that day when she embraced him.
  
  "Now, what are my lessons for this afternoon?"  she'd asked in Greek, the only language 
they spoke to each other, something in her gaze acknowledging the long night of intimacy.
  
  "Simple,"  he said." Disguise yourself and come with me and walk among your people. To 
see what no Queen can ever see. That is what I want of you."
  
  Alexandria. What would it be tomorrow? It had been a Greek city then of stone streets 
and whitewashed walls, and merchants who sold to all the world-a port full of weavers, 
jewelers, glass blowers, makers of papyri. In a thousand marketplace shops they worked 
above the crowded harbour.
  
  Through the bazaar they had walked together, both of them in the shapeless cloaks all 
men and women wore who did not wish to be recognized. Two travellers through time. And he 
had spoken to her of so many things-of his wanderings north into Gaul, of his long trek 
to India. He had ridden elephants and seen the great tiger with his own eyes. He had come 
back to Athens to listen to the philosophers.
  
  And what had he learned? That Julius Caesar, the Roman general, would conquer the 
world; that he would take Egypt if Cleopatra did not stop him.
  
  What had her thoughts been that day? Had she let him ramble on without absorbing all 
the desperate advice he gave her? What had she seen of the common men about her? The 
women and children hard at work at the laundry tubs and the looms? Of the sailors of all 
nations searching for the brothels?
  
  To the great university they had wandered, to listen to the teachers under the 
porticoes.
  
  Finally in a dirt square they'd stopped. From the common well Cleopatra had drunk, from 
the common cup on its rope.
  
  "It tastes the same,"  she had said with a playful smile.
  
  He remembered so clearly the cup dropped down into the deep cool water. The sound 
echoing up the stone walls; the hammering that came from the docks, and the vision 
through the narrow street to his right of the masts of the ships, a leafless forest there.
  
  "What is it you really want of me, Ramses?"  she had asked.
  
  "That you be a good and wise Queen of Egypt. I've told you."
  
  She'd taken his arm, forced him to look at her.
  
  "You want more than that. You're preparing me for something much more important."
  
  "No,"  he said, but that had been a lie, the first lie he had ever told her. The pain 
in him had been sharp, almost unbearable. / am lonely, my beloved. I am lonely beyond 
mortal endurance. But he didn't say that to her. He only stood there, knowing that he, an 
immortal man, could not live without her.
  
  What had happened after that? Another evening of lovemaking, with the sea beyond 
turning slowly from azure to silver, and finally black beneath a heavy full moon. And all 
around her the gilded furnishings, the hanging lamps and the fragrance of scented oil, 
and somewhere in an alcove just far enough away, a young boy playing a harp and singing a 
mournful song of ancient Egyptian words that the boy himself did not understand, but 
which Ramses understood perfectly.
  
  Memory within the memory. His palace at Thebes when he had been a mortal man, and 
afraid of death, and afraid of humiliation. When he had had a harem of one hundred wives 
to pleasure, and it had seemed a burden.
  
  "Have you had many lovers since I left?"  he had asked Cleopatra.
  
  "Oh, many men,"  she'd answered in a low voice mat was almost as hard as a man's voice 
for all its feminine resonance." But none of them were lovers."
  
  The lovers would come. Julius Caesar would come; and then the one who swept her away 
from all the things he'd taught her." For Egypt,"  she'd cry. But it wasn't for Egypt. 
Egypt was Cleopatra then. And Cleopatra was for Antony.
  
  It was getting light. The mist above the sea had paled, and he could see now the 
sparkling surface of the dark blue water.
  
  High above, the pale sun burnt through. And at once he felt it working on him. He felt 
a sudden breath of energy pass through him.
  
  His cheroot had long ago gone out. He pitched it into the void, and drawing out his 
gold cigarette case, took another.
  
  A foot sounded on the steel deck behind him.
  
  "Only a few hours, sire."
  
  The match came up to light the cheroot for him.
  
  "Yes, my loyal one,"  he said, drawing in the smoke." We wake from this ship as if from 
a dream. And what are we to do in the light of day with these two who know my secret, the 
young scoundrel, and the aged philosopher who may pose the worst threat of all with his 
knowledge?"
  
  "Are philosophers so dangerous, sire?"
  
</pre>
<!--N=7800 M=8000 pt=-->
  "Lord Rutherford has great faith in the invisible, Samir. And he is no coward. He wants 
the secret of eternal life. He realizes what it really is, Samir."
  
  No answer. Only the same distant and melancholy expression.
  
  "And I'll tell you another little secret, my friend,"  he went on." I've grown to like 
the man mightily."
  
  "I've seen it, sire."
  
  "He is an interesting man,"  Ramses said. And to his surprise he heard his voice break. 
It was hard for him to finish, but he did, saying:" I like to talk to him."
  
  Hancock sat at his desk in the museum office, looking up at Inspector Trent from 
Scotland Yard.
  
  "Well, as I see it, we have no choice. We seek a court order to enter the house and 
examine the collection. Of course if everything is as it should be, and there are no 
coins missing..."
  
  "Sir, with the two we have now, that's almost too much to hope for."
  
  PART 2
  
  HE GRAND Colonial Hotel was a rambling pink confection of moorish arches, mosaic 
floors, lacquered screens and peacock wicker chairs, its broad verandas overlooking the 
shining sand and the endless blue of the Mediterranean beyond it.
  
  Rich Americans and Europeans in perennial summer white thronged its immense lobby and 
other public rooms. An orchestra played Viennese music in one of its open bars. A young 
American pianist played ragtime in another. The ornate brass lifts, riding directly 
upwards beside the curving grand stair, seemed eternally in operation.
  
  Surely if this resort had existed in any other place, Ramsey would have loved it. But 
Elliott could see in the very first hour of their arrival that Alexandria was a profound 
shock to him.
  
  His vitality seemed immediately sapped. He fell quiet at tea, and excused himself to go 
wandering.
  
  And that night at dinner, when the subject of Henry's abrupt departure for Cairo was 
raised, he was almost snappish.
  
  "Julie Stratford's a grown woman,"  he said, glancing at her." It's preposterous to 
think she requires the companionship of a drunken, dissolute being. Are we not, all of 
us, as you say, gentlemen?"
  
  "I suppose so,"  Alex responded with predictable brightness." Nevertheless he is her 
cousin and it was her uncle's wish-"
  
  "Her uncle doesn't know her cousin!"  Ramsey declared.
  
  Julie cut the conversation short." I'm glad Henry's gone. We'll join him in Cairo soon 
enough. And Henry in Cairo will be a cross as it is. Henry in the Valley of the Kings 
would be intolerable."
  
  "Quite right."  Elliott sighed." Julie, I am your guardian now. Officially."
  
  "Elliott, the trip is far too difficult for you. You ought to go on to Cairo and wait 
for us there, also."
  
  Alex was about to protest when Elliott motioned for silence." That's out of the 
question now, dearest, and you know it. Besides, I want to see Luxor again, and Abu 
Simbel, perhaps for the last time."
  
  She looked at him thoughtfully. She knew that he was speaking the truth on both counts. 
He couldn't let her travel alone with Ramsey, no matter how much she wanted to. And he 
did want to see those monuments again. But she also sensed he had his own distinct 
priorities.
  
  Regardless, her acceptance was quite enough for Elliott.
  
  "And when do we go on to the Nile steamer?"  Alex asked." How much time do you need in 
this city, old boy?"  he asked Ramsey.
  
  "Not very much,"  Ramsey said dismally." There is precious little left of the old Roman 
times which I hoped to see."
  
  Ramsey, after devouring three courses without ever touching a knife or a fork, excused 
himself before the others had finished.
  
  By the following afternoon, it was clear he was in a dismal state. He said almost 
nothing at luncheon; declined to play billiards and again went out walking. It was soon 
obvious that he was walking at all times of the night and day, and had left Julie 
entirely to Alex for the time being. Even Samir did not apparently have his confidence.
  
  He was a man alone in the midst of a struggle.
  
  Elliott watched all this; and then came to a decision. Through his man Walter he hired 
a young Egyptian boy, a hanger-on at the hotel who did nothing but continuously sweep off 
the red carpeted steps, to follow Ramsey. It was quite a risk. And Elliott felt ashamed. 
But this obsession was consuming him.
  
  By the hour he sat in a comfortable peacock chair in the lobby reading the English 
papers, and watching all comings and goings. And then at odd moments, he would take 
reports from the Egyptian boy, who spoke tolerable English.
  
  Ramsey walked. Ramsey stared for hours at the sea. Ramsey explored great fields beyond 
the city. Ramsey sat in European cafes, staring at nothing, drinking huge quantities of 
sweet Egyptian coffee. Ramsey had also gone to a brothel, and there he had astonished the 
greasy old proprietor by taking every woman in the place between sunset and sunrise. That 
meant twelve couplings. The old pimp had never seen anything like it. Elliott smiled. So 
he beds them in the same manner that he satisfies every other appetite, he thought. And 
this meant surely that Julie had not admitted him to her inner sanctum. Or did it?
  
  Narrow alleyways, the old section of town, they called it. But it was no more than a 
few hundred years old, and no one knew that the great library had once stood here. That 
below on the hill had been the university where the teachers lectured to countless 
hundreds.
  
  Academy of the ancient world, this city; and now it was a seaside resort. And that 
hotel stood on the very spot where her palace had been; where he had taken her in his 
arms and begged her to stop her mad passion for Mark Antony.
  
  "The man will fail, don't you see?"  he had pleaded. "If Julius Caesar had not been 
struck down, you would have been Empress of Rome. But this man will never give you that. 
He is weak, corrupt; he lacks the mettle."
  
  But then, for the first time he'd seen the savage self-defeating passion in her eyes. 
She loved Mark Antony. She didn't care! Egypt, Rome, what did it matter? When had she 
ceased to be the Queen and become the mere mortal? He didn't know. He knew only that all 
his great dreams and plans were dissolving.
  
  "What do you care about Egypt!"  she had demanded." That I be Empress of Rome? That's 
not what you want of me. You want that I should drink your magic potion, which you claim 
will make me immortal as you are. And to hell with my mortal life! You would kill my 
mortal life and my mortal love, admit it! Well, I cannot die for you!"
  
  "You don't know what you're saying!"
  
  Ah, stop the voices of the past. Listen only to the sea crashing on the beach below. 
Walk where the old Roman cemetery stood, where they laid her to rest beside Mark Antony.
  
  He saw the procession in his mind's eye. He heard the weeping. And worst of all, he saw 
her again in those last hours." Take away your promises. Antony calls me from the grave. 
I want to be with him now."
  
  And now all trace of her was gone, save what remained inside him. And what remained in 
legend. He heard again the crowds who blocked the narrow streets, and flooded down the 
grassy slope to see her coffin placed within the marble tomb.
  
  "Our Queen died free."
  
  "She cheated Octavian."
  
  "She was no slave of Rome."
  
  Ah, but she could have been immortal!
  
  The catacombs. The one place he had not ventured. And why had he asked Julie to come 
with him? How weak he'd become, that he needed her there. And to think, he'd told her 
nothing.
  
  He could see the concern in her face. So lovely she looked in her long, lace-trimmed 
dress of pale yellow. These modern women had all seemed preposterously overdressed to him 
at first, but he understood the seductiveness of their clothing-the full sleeves tapering 
to tight cuffs at the wrists, the tiny waists and flowing skirts. They had begun to look 
normal to him.
  
  And he wished suddenly that they were not here. That they were back in England again, 
or far away in America.
  
  But the catacombs, he had to see the catacombs before they went on. And so with the 
other tourists they walked, listening to the droning voice of the guide, who spoke of 
Christians hiding here, of ancient rituals performed long before that in these rock 
chambers.
  
  "You've been here before,"  Julie whispered." It's important to you."
  
  "Yes,"  he answered under his breath, holding her hand tightly. Oh, if only they could 
leave Egypt now and forever. What was the point of this agony?
  
  The unwieldy party of chattering, whispering tourists came to a halt. His eyes moved 
anxiously over the wall. He saw it, the small passageway. The others moved on, cautioned 
again to remain with the guide, but he held Julie back, and then as the other voices died 
away, he switched on the electric torch and entered the passage.
  
  Was it the same? He could not tell. He could only remember what had happened.
  
  Same smell of damp stone; Latin markings on the wall.
  
  They came to a large room.
  
  "Look,"  she said." There's a window there cut high in the rock, how amazing! And hooks 
in the wall, do you see it!"
  
  It seemed her voice was very far away. He meant to answer, but that was not possible.
  
  He stared into the gloom at the great rectangular stone to which she pointed now. She 
said something about an altar.
  
  No, not an altar. A bed. A bed where he had lain for three hundred years, until that 
portal high up there had been opened. The ancient chains had pulled the heavy wooden 
blind, and the sun had come down, falling warm on his eyelids.
  
  He heard Cleopatra's girlish voice:
  
  "Ye gods, it's true. He's alive!"  Her gasp echoing off the walls. The sun flooding 
down upon him.
  
</pre>
<!--N=8000 M=8200 pt=-->
  "Ramses, rise!"  she cried." A Queen of Egypt calls you."
  
  He'd felt the tingling in his limbs; felt the suddenly zinging sensation in his hair 
and skin. Half in sleep still he'd sat up and seen the young woman standing there, 
rippling black hair loose over her shoulders. And the old priest, shivering, jabbering 
under his breath, hands clasped as if in prayer, bowing from the waist.
  
  "Ramses the Great,"  she had said." A Queen of Egypt needs your counsel."
  
  Soft dusty rays falling down from the twentieth-century world outside. The roar of 
motor cars on the boulevards of the modern city of Alexandria.
  
  "Ramses!"
  
  He turned. Julie Stratford was looking up at him.
  
  "My beautiful one,"  he whispered. He took her in his arms, tenderly. Not passion, but 
love. Yes, love." My beautiful Julie,"  he whispered.
  
  In the lobby they took high tea. The whole ritual made him laugh. To eat scones, eggs, 
cucumber sandwiches, and not call this a meal. But why should he complain? He could eat 
three times what everyone else was eating and still be hungry for dinner.
  
  He cherished this time alone with her. That Alex and Samir and Elliott were not about.
  
  He sat staring at the parade of plumed hats, frilly umbrellas. And the big shiny open 
motor cars, chugging up to the side entrance, right along with the open leather carriages.
  
  These were no longer the people of his time. The racial mix was different. She'd said 
he would see it was the same with the
  
  Greeks when they went there. Oh, so many places to go. Was he feeling relief?
  
  "You've been so patient with me,"  he said, smiling." You don't ask me to explain 
anything."
  
  Ah, but she looked radiant; her dress was a pale flowered silk; lace at the wrists and 
those tiny pearl buttons he was growing to love. Thank God she had not worn an open gown 
since that first night at sea. The sight of all that flesh drove him mad completely.
  
  "You'll tell me when you want to tell me,"  she said." What I can't bear is to see you 
suffering."
  
  "It's all as you said,"  he murmured. He drank down the tea, a beverage he didn't much 
like. It seemed to be half of something." All gone without a trace. The mausoleum, the 
library, the lighthouse. All that Alexander built; and Cleopatra built. Tell me, why are 
the pyramids still standing at Giza? Why is my temple still standing at Luxor?"
  
  "Do you want to see them?"  She reached across the little table and took his hand." Are 
you ready to leave here now?"
  
  "Yes, it's time to go on, isn't it? And then when we've seen it all, we can leave this 
land. You and I. ... That is, if you want to remain with me."
  
  Such lovely brown eyes with their deep fringe of brown lashes; and the pure sweetness 
of her mouth as she smiled. And wouldn't you know? The Earl had just come out of the 
lift, along with his charming nincompoop of a son, and Samir.
  
  "I'll go with you to the ends of the earth,"  she whispered.
  
  He held her gaze for a long moment. Did she know what she was saying? No. The question 
was, did he know what she was saying? That she loved him, yes. But the other, the other 
great question had never been asked, had it?
  
  They had been heading up the Nile for the better part of the afternoon, the sun beating 
down with full force upon the striped awnings of the small, elegant steamer. The 
combination of Julie's purse and Elliott's gift for command had provided them with every 
luxury. The staterooms of the small boat were as fine as those of the P&O liner which had 
brought them across the sea. The saloon and dining room were more than comfortable. The 
cook was a European; the servants, with the exception, of course, of Walter and Rita, 
were Egyptian.
  
  But the greatest luxury of all was that it was their craft. They shared it with no one 
else. And they had become, much to Julie's surprise, an extremely congenial group of 
travelers. Now that Henry was gone, that is. And for that she couldn't have been more 
grateful.
  
  He'd fled like a coward as soon as they landed in Alexandria. And what a preposterous 
story, that he would prepare things for them in Cairo. Shepheard's Hotel would prepare 
things for them in Cairo. They had cabled before they ever started the journey south 
towards Abu Simbel. They did not know how long their cruise would be; but Shepheard's, 
the old standby of the British abroad, would be waiting.
  
  Opera season was about to begin, they'd been advised. Should the concierge arrange for 
box seats for all of them? Julie had said yes, though she could not imagine how this trip 
would end.
  
  She knew only that Ramses was in fine spirits; that he loved being on the Nile. That he 
had stared for hours from the deck at the palm trees and the golden desert on either side 
of the broad, gleaming strip of brown water.
  
  No one had to tell Julie that these were the same airy, fanlike palms painted upon the 
walls of ancient Egyptian tombs. Or that the dark-faced farmers were drawing water from 
the river by the very same crude means they had used four thousand years ago. No one had 
to tell her that the many native boats which passed them were little changed since the 
time of Ramses the Great.
  
  And the wind and the sun changed for no one.
  
  But there was something she had to do, and it could wait no longer. She sat contentedly 
in the saloon, idly watching Samir and Elliott play chess. And then when Alex rose from 
his game of solitaire and went out on the deck alone, she followed him.
  
  It was almost evening; the breeze was cool for the first time, and the sky was slowly 
turning a deep shade of blue which was almost violet.
  
  "You're a darling,"  she said." And I don't want to hurt you. But I don't want to marry 
you, either."
  
  "I know,"  he said." I've known for a long time. But I'm going to continue to pretend 
it isn't so. Just as I've always done."
  
  "Alex, don't-"
  
  "No, darling, don't give advice. Let me do things my own way. After all, it's a woman's 
privilege to change her mind, isn't it? And you may change yours, and when you do, I'll 
be waiting. No, don't say anything more. You're free. You've always been free, really."
  
  She drew in her breath. A deep pain radiated through her. She felt it in her chest; in 
the pit of her stomach. She wanted to cry, but this was not the place. She kissed him 
quickly on the cheek, and then she went down the deck, and into her cabin.
  
  Thank God, Rita wasn't there. She lay down on the small bed and cried softly in the 
pillow. And then, exhausted, she drifted into a half sleep, her last thought being, May 
he never find out that I never loved him. May he always think it was another man, an 
adversary who swept me off my feet. That he can understand, not the other.
  
  It was dark beyond the windows when she opened her eyes. Rita had lighted a small lamp 
from the deck. And she realized Ramses was standing in the room, looking down at her.
  
  She felt no anger, and certainly no fear.
  
  And then suddenly she realized that she was still dreaming. Only now did she fully wake 
and find the room lighted and empty. Oh, if only he had been there. Her body ached for 
him. She no longer cared about past or future. She cared only for him, and surely he knew 
this.
  
  When she came into the dining room, he was in fast conversation with others. The table 
was littered with exotic dishes.
  
  "Should we have awakened you, my dear, we weren't sure,"  Elliott said, rising at once 
to help her with her chair.
  
  "Ah, Julie,"  Ramses said," these native dishes are simply delicious."  He was gaily 
helping himself to shish kebab and grape leaves and spiced dishes for which she didn't 
know the names, fingers moving as always with great delicacy and deliberation.
  
  "Wait a minute,"  Alex said." You mean, you've never had this food before?"
  
  "Well, no, in that crazy pink hotel we ate meat and potatoes if memory serves me 
right,"  Ramses said." And this is a very fine dish, this chicken and cinnamon."
  
  "But wait a minute,"  Alex said." Are you not a native Egyptian?"
  
  "Alex, please, I think Mr. Ramsey likes to be mysterious about his origins,"  Julie 
said.
  
  Ramses laughed. He drank down a tumbler full of wine." That's true, I must confess. But 
if you must know, I am ... Egyptian, yes."
  
  "And where in the world ..."
  
  "Alex, please,"  Julie said.
  
  Alex shrugged." What a puzzle you are, Ramsey!" "Ah, but I don't offend you, do I, 
Alexander?" "Call me that again and I'll call you out,"  Alex said." What does this mean?"
  
  "Nothing,"  Elliott said. He patted his son's hand. But Alex wasn't cross. And 
certainly he wasn't offended. He gazed at Julie across the table. He gave her a little 
sad secret smile, for which she knew she would be forever grateful.
  
  It was burning hot at midday in Luxor. They waited until late afternoon before going 
ashore and taking the long stroll through the immense temple complex. Ramses had no need 
to be alone, she could see that. He walked among the pillars, now and then looking up, 
but for the most part deep in his own thoughts.
  
  Elliott had refused to miss this part of the journey, no matter how difficult it was 
for him. Alex hung back to give his father an arm to lean on. And Samir walked with the 
Earl as well. They appeared to be in deep discussion.
  
  "The pain's leaving you, isn't it?"  Julie said.
  
  "When I look at you I don't feel it at all,"  Ramses answered." Julie is as beautiful 
in Egypt as she was in London."
  
  "Were these ruins already when you last saw them?"
  
  "Yes, they were, and covered over with sand so deep that only the very tops of the 
columns were visible. The avenue of the sphinxes was buried entirely. A thousand years 
had passed since I walked in this place a mortal man, a fool who thought the kingdom of 
Egypt was the civilized world and that no truth lay outside its boundaries."  He stopped, 
turning to her and kissing her quickly on the forehead. Then there was a guilty glance in 
the direction of the party coming behind him. No, not guilty, only resentful.
  
  She took his hand. They moved on.
  
  "Someday I'm going to tell you all of it,"  he said." I shall tell you so much that 
you'll tire of listening. I shall tell you how we dressed and how we spoke to each other; 
and how we dined and how we danced; and what these temples and palaces were when the 
paint still gleamed on the walls; and I came forth at dawn and noon and sunset to greet 
</pre>
<!--N=8200 M=8400 pt=-->
the god and say the prayers the people expected. But come, there's time for us to cross 
the river and ride out to the temple of Ramses the Third. I want so much to see it."
  
  He signaled one of the turbaned Egyptians near at hand. He wanted a buggy to take them 
to the landing. She was glad to be free of the others for a little while.
  
  But when they had made the river crossing and reached the immense roofless temple with 
