shoulders, she fired up the beast again.
  
  And headed fast for the place where" all the best people stay, the British and the 
Americans, that's Shepheard's, the hotel, if you know what I mean."
  
  She gave a deep laugh when she thought of the American and his strange way of talking 
to her, as if she were an idiot; and the merchant woman had been the same. Maybe at 
Shepheard's she would meet someone of charm and graceful manners, someone infinitely more 
interesting than all these miserable souls whom she had sent into the dark waters whence 
she'd come.
  
  "What in God's name has happened here!"  whispered the older of the two officials. He 
stood in the doorway of Malenka's house, reluctant to enter without a warrant or 
permission. No answer to his knock; no answer when he had called Henry Stratford's name.
  
  He could see broken glass over the dressing table in the lighted bedroom. And that 
looked like blood on the floor.
  
  The younger man, as ever impatient and strong-willed, had ventured into the courtyard 
with his electric torch. Chairs overturned. Broken china.
  
  "Good Lord, Davis. There's a woman dead out here!"
  
  The older man didn't move for a moment. He was staring at the dead parrot on the floor 
of its cage. And at all the empty bottles ranged from one end of the bar to the other. 
And the suit coat hanging on the corner rack.
  
  Then he forced himself to go out into the dark little garden and see this corpse for 
himself.
  
  "That's the woman,"  he said." That's Malenka from the Babylon."
  
  "Well, I don't think we need a warrant under these circumstances."
  
  The older man came back into the sitting room. He moved cautiously into the bedroom.
  
  He stared at the torn dress lying on the floor, and at the curious rags pushed in a 
pile against the wall. He paid little heed to the young man passing him; the young man 
who moved about, vaguely exhilarated by these obvious signs of disaster, searching and 
scribbling in his little book.
  
  Those rags-why, they looked like mummy wrappings, yet some of the linen appeared to be 
new. He looked up as the young man held a passport before him.
  
  "Stratford's,"  said the young man." All of his identification is in there, in his 
coat."
  
  Elliott leaned on Alex's arm as they stepped out of the glass lift.
  
  "But what if Pitfield can't straighten all this out?"  Alex asked.
  
  "We will continue to conduct ourselves like civilized people as long as we must remain 
here,"  Elliott said." You'll take Julie to the opera as planned tomorrow night. You will 
accompany her to the ball afterwards. And you will be ready to leave as soon as your 
passport is released."
  
  "She's in no mood for it, Father. And she'd rather have Samir accompany her, if you 
want the truth. Since all this started, it's Samir she confides in. He's always at her 
side."
  
  "Nevertheless, you are to stay close to her. We are going to be seen together tomorrow. 
Everything right and proper. Now why don't you go out on the veranda and have a nightcap 
and leave the legal business to me?"
  
  Yes, she liked Shepheard's, she knew it already. She had liked it this afternoon when 
she had seen the long chain of motor cars before it, with exquisitely dressed men and 
women climbing out of them and walking up the steps.
</pre>
<!--N=13200 M=13400 pt=-->
  
  Now there were very few cars. She managed to stop right before the entrance; and a 
charming young male servant came to open her door. Carrying her canvas bag and satin 
purse, she walked serenely up the carpeted stairs as other servants scrambled to retrieve 
her many packages.
  
  The lobby delighted her at once. Oh, she had no idea the rooms of this palatial 
building would be so grand. And the crowds moving to and fro-shapely women and handsomely 
clad men-excited her. This was an elegant world-"modern times."  One had to see such a 
place as this to grasp the possibilities.
  
  "May I help you, miss? Another servile male approached; how strange was his clothing, 
especially his hat. If there was one thing about" modern times"  she did not like, it was 
these hats!
  
  "Oh, would you be so kind!"  she said carefully." I would like to have lodgings here. 
This is Shepheard's Hotel? The hotel?"
  
  "Yes, indeed, miss. Let me take you to the desk."
  
  "Wait,"  she whispered. Some feet away from her, she spied Lord Rutherford! No mistake. 
It was he. And an exquisite young man was with him, a tall, slender creature of fine 
porcelain features who made her earlier companions seem quite crude.
  
  She narrowed her eyes, concentrating, trying to hear what this young man was saying. 
But there was too great a distance. And the two were moving in and out of sight, beyond a 
row of high potted palms. Then the young one clasped Lord Rutherford's hand and left him, 
moving towards the front doors. And Lord Rutherford moved into a large shadowy room.
  
  "That's Lord Rutherford, miss,"  said the helpful young man beside her.
  
  "Yes, I know,"  she said." But the beautiful one. Who is he?"
  
  "Ah, that's his son, Alex, miss, the young Viscount Summerfield. They're frequent 
guests of Shepheard's. Friends of the Stratfords, miss."
  
  She looked at him quizzically.
  
  "Lawrence Stratford, miss,"  he explained as he took her arm and gendy guided her 
forward." The great archaeologist, the one who just made the discovery of the Ramses 
tomb."
  
  "What did you say!"  she whispered." Speak slowly."
  
  "The one that dug up the mummy, miss, of Ramses the Damned."
  
  "Ramses the Damned!"
  
  "Yes, miss, quite a story, miss."  He pointed now to a long ornate table in front of 
her, which in fact looked like an altar." There's the desk, miss. Anything else I can do 
for you?"  She gave a little laugh of pure amazement. "No,"  she said. "You have been 
simply super. Very okay!"
  
  He gave her a sweet indulgent look, the look all these men gave her. And then he 
gestured for her to step up to the" desk. *'
  
  * * *
  
  Elliott went right to it as Pitfield sat down across from him. He was aware that he was 
talking too fast, and likely to say strange things, but he could not break his momentum. 
Get Alex out of here. Get Julie out if at all possible. Those were the only thoughts in 
his mind, and worry about Randolph later.
  
  "None of us has the slightest connection to any of it,"  he said." They must all be 
allowed to go home. I can stay here, if it's absolutely necessary, but my son must be 
allowed to leave."
  
  Gerald, ten years his senior, white-haired and heavy about the middle, listened keenly. 
He was a man not given to strong drink, who tended to work round the clock so that his 
family might enjoy every pleasurable aspect of colonial existence.
  
  "Of course not,"  he said now, with complete sympathy." But wait, there's Winthrop in 
the doors. He has two men with him."
  
  "I can't talk to him!"  Elliott said." Not now, for the love of heaven."
  
  "You leave it to me completely."
  
  How astonished they were when she paid them in advance with piles and piles of the 
strange money they called" pound notes,"  though they weighed nothing. The young servants 
would take her many bundles to her suite, they said. And indeed, there were kitchens 
working now to produce whatever food she desired; there lay the dining room to the right; 
and she could banquet in her room if that was her wish. As for the hairdresser which she 
clearly required to tie up her hair, that lady would not be available until tomorrow. 
Very well. Thank you!
  
  She dropped the key into her satin bag. She would find suite number 201 later. She 
hurried to the door of the dark room into which Lord Rutherford had gone, and spied him 
drinking there alone. He did not see her.
  
  Out on the broad front terrace, she could see his son, Alex, leaning against the white 
pillar-such a comely youth-in fast conversation with a dark-skinned Egyptian. The 
Egyptian came back into the hotel. The young one seemed at a loss.
  
  She went to him immediately. She crept up and stood beside him and studied his delicate 
face-yes, a beauty. Of course Lord Rutherford was a man of considerable charm; but this 
one was so young that his skin was still petal soft, and yet he was tall and his 
shoulders were strong and straight, and he had a clear, confident look in his brown eyes 
when he turned to her.
  
  "The young Viscount Summerfield,"  she said." Son of Lord Rutherford, I am told?"
  
  A great flash of a smile. "I'm Alex Savarell, yes. Forgive me, I don't believe I've had 
the pleasure."
  
  "I'm hungry, Viscount Summerfield. Won't you show me to the banquet room of the hotel? 
I should like to eat something."
  
  "I'd be delighted! What an unexpected pleasure."
  
  He hooked his arm for her to take it. Oh, she liked him very much; there was no 
reticence in him at all. He escorted her back into the crowded main room, past the dark 
tavern where his father drank, and on towards a great open place under a high gilded 
ceiling.
  
  Tables draped in linen filled the sides of the immense room. In the centre men and 
women danced, the women's skirts like great softly ruffled flowers. And the music, oh, so 
lovely, though it almost hurt her ears. It was far more shrill than that of the music 
box. And it was sweetly sad!
  
  At once he asked an imperious old man to show them to a "table."  What an ugly person 
was this imperious man who appeared as finely dressed as anyone present. But he said," 
Yes, Lord Summerfield"  with great respect. And the table was fine indeed, set with 
gorgeous plate, and sweet-scented flowers.
  
  "What is this music?"  she asked.
  
  "From America,"  he said." From Sigmund Romberg."
  
  She began rocking back and forth a little.
  
  "Would you like to dance?"  he asked.
  
  "That would be super!"
  
  Oh, such a warm hand he had as he clasped hers and led her out on the floor. How 
peculiar that each couple should be dancing as if entirely alone and engaged in a private 
ritual. At once the melancholy rhythm swept her up. And this adorable young man, how 
lovingly he looked at her. This really was a lovely young man, this Alex, Lord 
Summerfield.
  
  "How enchanting it is here,"  she said." A true palace. And the music, so piercing, but 
beautiful. It hurts my ears, but then I do not like loud noises-screeching birds, guns!"
  
  "Of course you don't,"  he said with surprise." You're such a fragile creature. And 
your hair, may I tell that your hair is lovely? It's a rare thing to see a woman who 
wears her hair free, and natural. It makes you look like a goddess."
  
  "Yes, that is very okay. Thank you."
  
  He had a sweet laugh. So honest. No fear in his eyes, no shrinking. He was like a 
prince who had been reared with kind nurses in a palace. Altogether too gentle for the 
real world.
  
  "Would you mind terribly telling me your name?"  he asked." I know we've not been 
properly introduced, so we must introduce ourselves, it seems."
  
  "My name is Cleopatra, Queen of Egypt."  How she loved this dancing, being carried 
along, turned about; the floor shimmered like water beneath her.
  
  "Oh, I could almost believe you,"  he said." You look like a Queen. May I call you Your 
Highness?"
  
  She laughed." Your High-ness. Is that the proper address for a Queen! Yes, you may call 
me Your High-ness. And I shall call you Lord Summerfield. These men here, are they 
all...lords?"
  
  Through the dark mirror on the panelled wall, Elliott saw Winthrop and his cohorts 
withdraw. Pitfield came directly back and took his chair opposite. He signaled for 
another drink.
  
  "More mayhem,"  he said." What in God's name has happened to young Stratford!" "Tell 
me."
  
  "Astonishing! Some belly dancer, Henry Stratford's mistress. They found her dead, neck 
broken, in the garden of the house she was sharing with Henry. All Henry's things were 
there. Passport, money, everything."
  
  Elliott swallowed. He needed another drink badly. It occurred to him that he ought to 
take some supper just so that he could go on drinking without passing out.
  
  "Same thing that happened to the Oxford student this afternoon, neck broken, and the 
American kid out at the pyramids, and the maid at the museum. Wonder why he bothered to 
use a knife on Sharpies! You'd better tell me everything you know about this."
  
  The waiter set down the fresh glasses of Scotch and gin. Elliott took his drink and 
sipped it thoughtfully.
  
  "Just what I was afraid of, the whole thing. He was going out of his mind with guilt."
  
  "Over the gambling."
  
  "No. Over Lawrence. It was Henry, you see, and the poisons in the tomb."
  
  "Good Lord, man, are you serious?"
  
  "Gerald, that's how it all started. He had papers for Lawrence to sign. He probably 
forged them. But that's not the point. He admitted the killing."
  
  "To you."
</pre>
<!--N=13400 M=13600 pt=-->
  
  "No, to someone else."  He broke off, had to think this through, but there was no 
time." To Ramsey."
  
  "Ramsey, the one they're searching for."
  
  "Yes, Ramsey tried to talk to him, early this morning, before Henry went on the rampage 
and broke into the museum. By the way . . • you said they'd been to the belly dancer's 
house. Did they find any evidence of a mummy there, any wrappings? That would certainly 
tie it up and then they'd stop persecuting poor Ramsey. Ramsey is entirely innocent, you 
see. He went to the museum to reason with Henry."
  
  "You know this for a fact?"
  
  "It was all my fault. I can't sleep of late, pain in my joints is too severe. Five 
o'clock this morning I was just coming in from my walk. I'd seen Henry, roaring drunk, 
near the museum, as I told you. I thought he was pub crawling. And I made the mistake of 
telling Ramsey, who had just come down for his morning coffee. Ramsey had tried to reason 
with Henry earlier. And off he went to find him again, for Julie's sake."
  
  "Julie and this Ramsey, they're ..."
  
  "Yes. The engagement's off with Alex. It's all quite amicable; Alex and Ramsey are 
friends. And the whole thing must be straightened out."
  
  "Of course, of course."
  
  "Ramsey was trying to stop the robbery when the police apprehended him. He's a strange 
man. He panicked. But surely you can get this cleared up."
  
  "Well, I can do my damnedest. But why in the world would Stratford break into the 
museum to steal a mummy?"
  
  "That part I can't quite figure."  Understatement of the year, he thought." All I know 
is that the mummy of Ramses the Damned in London is missing too and apparently he stole 
some coins and jewelry as well. I believe somebody may have put him up to it. Steal a 
pair of valuable relics, get some ready cash, that sort of thing."
  
  "So he goes blundering into the most famous museum in the entire world?"
  
  "Egyptian security isn't very good, old boy. And you haven't seen Henry in the last few 
months, have you? He's quite deteriorated, my friend. This may be a case of pure 
insanity. The thing is, I can't have Alex and Julie detained in Cairo. And they won't 
leave until Ramsey's cleared, and Ramsey has not done anything."
  
  He finished off the gin.
  
  "Gerald, get us off the hook, all of us. I'11 make a statement, if you advise it. I'll 
try to reach Ramsey. If he's granted immunity, then surely he'll back me up. You can 
handle it, Gerald, you know these colonial idiots! You've put up with them for years."
  
  "Yes, I certainly have. This has to be handled delicately, but immediately. And the 
fact is, they're on to Stratford. It's merely a question of exonerating Ramsey."
  
  "Yes, and protocol and propriety and paperwork and all the other colonial rot. Go to 
it, Gerald. I don't care what you do, I have to get my son home. I've used my son badly 
in all this..."
  
  "What?"
  
  "Nothing. Can you work it out?"
  
  "Yes, but Henry himself ... Have you any idea where he could be?"
  
  In the vat of bitumen. Elliot shuddered." No,"  he said." No idea at all. But he has 
many enemies out there, people whom he owes money. I need another drink. Get the 
attention of the pretty little nitwit, will you?"
  
  "Young Lord Summerfield,"  she said, gazing at his beautiful mouth," let us banquet in 
my rooms. And leave this place to be alone there."
  
  "If you wish."  The inevitable flame in the cheeks. Oh, what would the rest of the 
young body look like? Pray there was a priapic organ there worthy of all the other charms!
  
  "Indeed, but do you wish?"  she asked him. She ran the backs of her fingers along his 
cheek. Then slid her fingers under the stiff cloth of his garment.
  
  "Yes, I do,"  he whispered.
  
  She led him off the dance floor, collecting her handbags as they went out of the 
swimming music and lights, back into the crowded grand room.
  
  "Suite two-oh-one,"  she said, producing the key." How do we find it?"
  
  "Well, we'll just take the lift to the second floor,"  he said, beaming at her." And 
walk to the very front of the building."
  
  The lift? He led her towards a pair of brass gates. He pressed a small button in the 
wall-
  
  A huge drawing stood between these gates: Aida, the opera. And there were the same 
Egyptian figures she'd seen before." Ah, the opera,"  she said.
  
  "Yes, quite an event,"  he said. The brass gate had opened, and a man inside the small 
chamber appeared to be waiting for them. She stepped inside. It was like a cage. And it 
frightened her suddenly. The doors clanged shut. Some sort of trap, and the room began to 
rise.
  
  "Lord Summerfield,"  she cried.
  
  "It's quite all right, Your Highness,"  he said. He threw his arms around her, and 
turning, she bowed her head against his chest. Oh, he was so much sweeter than all the 
others, and when a strong man is sweet, even goddesses look down from Mount Olympus.
  
  At last the doors opened. He led her out and into a silent passageway. They walked 
towards a distant window.
  
  "What frightened you so?"  he asked. But his intonation had no mockery or disapproval. 
It was almost soothing. He took the key from her, and put it in the lock.
  
  "The room moved,"  she sighed." Are those not the right English words?"
  
  "Yes, they are,"  he said. He paused as they entered the long sitting room, with rich 
hangings and chairs that looked for all the world like giant cushions." Why, you are die 
strangest creature. So out of this world."
  
  She reached out and caressed his face, and slowly kissed him. His brown eyes were 
troubled, suddenly. But then he kissed her back, and the sudden fire surprised her and 
thrilled her.
  
  "For this night, Lord Summerfield,"  she said," this is my palace; and now we must go 
and seek the royal bedchamber."
  
  Elliott walked to the door of the bar with Pitfield." I can't thank you enough for 
coming immediately."
  
  "Have every confidence, old boy, and do see if you can get some word to your friend. Of 
course, I can't advise you to-"
  
  "I know, I know. Let me handle that."  Elliot went back into the bar, settled down into 
the leather chair and picked up the gin. Yes, definitely he would slowly drink himself to 
death when this was over.
  
  He would go out to the country, stock the finest sherry and port and Scotch and gin, 
and just drink day in and day out until he was dead. It would be very simply wonderful. 
He saw himself there, by the great log fire, one foot on the leather ottoman. The image 
shimmered; then faded. The sickness rose in his throat, and he was near to breaking down 
completely.
  
  "Get Alex home; get him home and safe,"  he whispered, and then he began to tremble 
almost uncontrollably. He saw her again, moving through the museum with her arms out. And 
then in the bed looking up at him: he felt her caress, and the bare bones in her side as 
she'd pressed against him. He remembered the crazed look in Ramsey's eyes when he'd 
fought her.
  
  The trembling got worse. Much worse.
  
  No one noticed in the dark bar; a pianist had come in-a young man, who began to play a 
slow ragtime.
  
  He had helped her with her fine dress of green satin. He laid it over the chair; and 
when the lights went out, she saw the city through the pale curtains. She saw the river.
  
  "The Nile,"  she whispered. She wanted to say how beautiful, this gleaming strip of 
water winding through the built-up city; but a shadow fell over her soul. An image came 
to her like all the rest; descending complete and entire and then vanishing; only this 
one had been so quick. A catacomb, a priest walking before her.
  
  "What is it, Your Highness?"
  
  She lifted her head slowly. She'd moaned; that's what had frightened him.
  
  "You're so tender with me, young Lord Summerfield,"  she said. Where was the inevitable 
unkindness in this boy? The inevitable need to hurt which all men evinced sooner or later?
  
  She looked up and saw that he was now naked as well, and the sight of his strong, 
youthful body pleased her intensely. She placed her hand on his flat belly, and then 
gently on his chest. It was always the hardness of men all over that excited her; even 
the hardness of their mouths, that they tensed their mouths when they kissed; she liked 
even to feel their teeth behind their lips.
  
  She kissed him roughly and pressed her breasts against him. He could hardly control 
himself; he wanted to carry her to the bed; he tried to be gentle.
  
  "Such an unearthly thing,"  he whispered." Wherever did you come from?"
  
  "From darkness and coldness. Kiss me. I am only warm again when I'm kissed. Make a 
fire, Lord Summerfield, to burn both of us."
  
  She went back against the pillows, tugging him down on top of her. Her hand plunged, 
grasped his sex and stroked it, pinching the tip. When he moaned, she opened his lips 
with her own, licking at his tongue and his teeth.
  
  "Now,"  she said." Into me. The second time is for the slow song."
  
  Julie's suite. Samir set the newspapers down on the table. Julie drank a second cup of 
the sweet Egyptian coffee.
  
  "You mustn't leave me tonight, Samir. Not till we hear from him,"  she said. She stood 
up." I'm going to change into my robe. Promise me you won't leave me."
  
  "I'll be here, Julie,"  he said," but perhaps you should sleep. I'll wake you as soon 
as I hear anything."
  
  "No, I can't do that. I want only to get out of these tired clothes. I won't be but a 
minute."
  
  She went into the bedroom. She had sent Rita off an hour ago to her own room, and thank 
God for that; she wanted only to be with Samir. Her nerves were worn thin. She knew 
Elliott was in the hotel, but she could not bring herself to ring him. She did not want 
</pre>
<!--N=13600 M=13800 pt=-->
to see him or talk to him. Not until she knew what Ramses had done, and she could not 
break the feeling of foreboding.
  
  Slowly she took the pins out of her hair, gazing absently in the mirror. For a moment, 
she noticed nothing amiss, and then suddenly she realized that a tall Arab in white robes 
was standing in the corner of the room, still as the shadows, merely watching her. Her 
Arab, Ramses.
  
  She spun around, her hair tumbling down all at once over her shoulders. Her heart was 
about to burst.
  
  She might have fainted again for the second time in her life, if he hadn't caught her. 
Then she saw the deep bloodstain on his robe and again she felt weak; blackness rising 
all around her.
  
  Silently he embraced her, pressing her to himself." My Julie,"  he said, his voice 
heartbroken." How long have you been here?"
  
  "Only a little while,"  he said." Let me be silent now; let me hold you."
  
  "Where is she?"
  
  He let her go, backing off." I don't know,"  he said in a defeated voice." I have lost 
her."
  
  Julie watched him as he paced, turned and looked at her from a distance. She was keenly 
aware that she loved him, and would go on loving him no matter what had happened. But she 
could not say such a thing to him, not until she knew...
  
  "Let me call Samir,"  she said." He's there, in the sitting room."
  
  "I want to be alone with you for a moment,"  he said. And for the first time, he 
appeared just slightly afraid of her. It was a subtle thing, but she felt it.
  
  "You must tell me what's happened."
  
  He remained impassive, looking at her, the sheikh robes doing their damnedest to make 
him irresistible. And then suddenly his expression broke her heart; no use denying it.
  
  In a tremulous voice, she said," You gave her more of it."
  
  "You haven't seen her,"  he said quietly, his voice unhurried, his eyes full of 
undisguised sorrow." You have not heard the sound other voice! You have not heard her 
weeping. Don't judge me. She is as alive as I am! I brought her back. Let me judge 
myself."
  
  She clasped her hands tightly, hurting the fingers of her right hand with the fingers 
of the other.
  
  "What do you mean, you don't know where she is?"
  
  "I mean she escaped from me. She attacked me; she tried to kill me. And she is mad. 
Lord Rutherford was right. Absolutely mad. She would have killed him if I hadn't stopped 
her. The elixir hasn't changed that. It merely healed her body."
  
  He took a step towards her, and before she could stop herself she turned her back. She 
was going to cry again; oh, so many tears. And she didn't want to.
  
  "Pray to your gods,"  she said, looking at him through the mirror." Ask them what to 
do. My God would only condemn you. But whatever happens with this creature, one thing is 
certain."  She turned and looked him in the eye." You must never, never brew the elixir 
again. Whatever remains, consume it. Do it now in my presence. And men erase the formula 
from your mind."
  
  No response. Slowly he removed the headdress, and ran his hand back through his hair. 
For some reason this only made him look all the more gallant and seductive. A biblical 
figure now with flowing hair and flowing robes. It maddened her slightly, and made the 
threat of tears all the more sharp.
  
  "Do you realize what you're saying?"
  
  "If it's too dangerous to consume it, then find someplace far out in the desert sands, 
and make a deep shaft into which to pour it! But get rid of it."
  
  "Let me put a question to you."
  
  "No."  She turned her back again. She covered her ears. When she looked up she saw in 
the mirror that he was right at her shoulder. There was that awareness again of her own 
world destroyed, of a brilliant light having thrown all else into hopeless shadow.
  
  Gently, he took her hands, and lowered them from her ears. He looked into her eyes 
through the mirror, his body warm and close to her.
  
  "Julie, last night. If instead of taking the elixir with me to the museum, if instead 
of pouring it over Cleopatra's remains- if instead, I'd offered it to you, wouldn't you 
have taken it?"
  
  She refused to answer. Roughly he grabbed her wrist and turned her around.
  
  "Answer me! If I had never seen her lying there in that glass case ..."
  
  "But you did."
  
  She meant to hold firm, but he surprised her with his kiss, with the roughness and the 
desperation of his embrace, with his hands moving over her face and her cheek almost 
cruelly. He was saying her name like a prayer. He murmured something in the ancient 
Egyptian tongue, she didn't know what it was. And then he said softly in Latin that he 
loved her. He loved her. It seemed both explanation and apology, somehow, the reason for 
all this suffering. He loved her. He said it as if he were just realizing it, and now her 
tears were coming again, stupidly. It infuriated her.
  
  She pulled back; then kissed him and let him kiss her again, and sank against his 
chest, merely letting him hold her.
  
  Then softly she said:
  
  "What does she look like?"
  
  He sighed.
  
  "Is she beautiful?"
  
  "She always was. She is now. She is the woman who seduced Caesar, and Mark Antony, and 
the whole world."
  
  She stiffened, drawing away from him.
  
  "She is as beautiful as you are,"  he said." But you are right. She is not Cleopatra. 
She is a stranger in Cleopatra's body. A monster looking through Cleopatra's eyes. And 
struggling to use Cleopatra's wits to her own purposeless advantage."
  
  What more was there to say? What could she do? It was in his hands, it had been since 
the beginning. She forced him to release her and then she sat down and leaned her elbow 
on the arm of the chair and rested her forehead in her hand.
  
  "I'll find her,"  he said." And I will undo this awful error. I will put her back into 
the darkness from which I took her. And she will suffer only a little while. And then she 
will sleep."
  
  "Oh, but it's too awful! There must be some other way. ..."  She broke into sobs.
  
  "What have I done to you, Julie Stratford?"  he said." What have I done to your life, 
all your tender dreams and ambitions?"
  
  She took her handkerchief out of her pocket and pressed it to her mouth. She forced 
herself to stop this foolish crying. She wiped her nose, then looked up at him, the great 
handsome dreamy figure he was standing there with that tragic expression. A man, only a 
man. Immortal, yes, a ruler once, a teacher always, perhaps, but human as we all are. 
Fallible as we all are. Lovable as we all are.
  
  "I cannot live without you, Ramses,"  she said." Well, I could. But I don't want to."  
Ah, tears from him now. If she didn't look away, she'd be weeping again." Reason has 
nothing to do with it anymore,"  she went on," But it's this creature you've wronged. 
It's this thing you've resurrected that will be hurt. You speak of burying her alive. I 
cannot ... I cannot ..."
  
  "Trust in me that I shall find a painless way,"  he whispered.
  
  She couldn't speak. She couldn't look at him.
  
  "And know this, for what it's worth. Know it now because later it may bring contusion. 
Your cousin Henry is dead. Cleopatra killed him."
  
  "What!"
  
  "It was to Henry's abode in the old Cairo that Elliott took her. He did follow me to 
the museum. And when the soldiers took me away, Elliott gave shelter to the creature I 'd 
resurrected. He took her there, and there she killed both Henry and the woman, Malenka."
  
  She shook her head, and once again her hands went up to her ears. All the things she 
knew of Henry, of her father's death, of
  
  his attempt on her life, somehow could not help her now; they could not touch her. She 
heard only the horror.
  
  "Trust in me when I say that I shall find a painless way. For that I must do before 
more innocent blood is shed. I cannot turn my back until it's finished."
  
  "My son left no message?"  Elliott had not forsaken the leather chair, or the gin, and 
had no intention of doing so. But he knew he had to call Alex before he got any drunker. 
And so he'd sent for the telephone." But he wouldn't go out without telling me. All 
right. Samir Ibrahaim, where is he? Can you ring his room for me?"
  
  "He's in Miss Stratford's suite, sir. Two-oh-three. He requests that any messages be 
sent there. Shall I ring? It is eleven of the clock, sir."
  
  "No, I'll go up, thank you."
  
  She leaned over the marble lavatory. She slapped the cold water on her face. She didn't 
want to look into the mirror. Then slowly she wiped her eyes with the towel. When she 
turned around, she saw him standing in the sitting room. She could hear Samir's low, 
comforting voice.
  
  "Of course I will help you, sire, but where do we begin?"
  
  There was a sharp rap on the hall door.
  
  Ramses stepped back into the bedroom. Samir went to answer. It was Elliott. Their eyes 
met for only a moment, and then she looked away, unable to judge him and unable to face 
him. She thought only, He has had a hand in this. He knows it all; he knows more than I 
know. And suddenly her revulsion for the whole nightmare was insupportable.
  
  She went into the sitting room, and took the chair in the far corner.
  
  "I shall come right to the point,"  Elliott said, looking directly at Ramses." I have a 
plan and I need your cooperation. But before I begin, let me remind you that it isn't 
safe here for you."
  
  "They find me, I escape again,"  Ramses said with a shrug." What is this plan?"
  
</pre>
<!--N=13800 M=14000 pt=-->
  "A plan to get Julie and my son out of here,"  Elliott said." But what happened after I 
left? You want to tell me?"
  
  "She is as you described her. Mad, incalculably strong, and dangerous. Only she is 
whole now. No longer disfigured. And her eyes are die colour of the blue sky, just as 
mine are."
  
  "Ah."
  
  Elliott fell silent, as if he'd felt a sharp pain inside and had to hold his breath to 
let it pass. Julie realized suddenly he was drunk, really drunk. It was perhaps the first 
time she'd seen him this way. He was dignified, restrained, but drunk. He reached out for 
Samir's glass, still half-full of brandy, and drank it almost absently.
  
  Quietly Samir went to the small rattan drinks cupboard in the corner and got a bottle 
for him.
  
  "You saved my life,"  Elliott said to Ramses." I thank you format."
  
  Ramses shrugged. But the tone of all this struck Julie as curious. It was intimate, as 
though these two men knew each other quite well. There was no animosity.
  
  "What is this plan?"  Ramses said.
  
  "You must cooperate. You must tell lies. You must do that effectively. And the end 
result will be that you are cleared of the crimes of which you're suspected, and Julie 
and Alex will be free to leave here, Samir also will no longer be under suspicion. Then 
other matters can be attended to. ..."
  
  "I'm not going anywhere, Elliott,"  Julie said wearily." But Alex must be allowed to go 
home as soon as possible."
  
  Samir poured another drink of brandy for Elliott, and Elliott took it mechanically and 
drank it." Any gin, Samir? I prefer gin for getting drunk,"  he said.
  
  "Come to the point, my lord,"  said Ramses." I must be taking my leave. The last Queen 
of Egypt roams this city alone, with a penchant for killing; I must find her."
  
  "This will take a strong stomach,"  Elliott said," but there's a way that all of this 
can be pinned on Henry. He laid the ground himself. But Ramsey, you have to lie as I told 
you. ..."
  
  The quiet of the night. Alex Savarell lay naked and asleep on the snow-white sheets of 
the soft feather bed, the thin wool blanket covering him only to the waist, his face 
smooth and waxen in the moonlight.
  
  In the sweet stillness, she had undone her many parcels quiedy, examining the fine 
robes, gowns, slippers. She had laid out the little rectangular stolen opera papers which 
said" Admit One"  on the dressing table.
  
  The moon shone on the rich silks. It sparkled in the rope of pearls, coiled like a 
snake on the table. And beyond the sheer finespun curtains on the window, it shone upon 
the Nile flowing into the soft tangle of rounded roofs and towers that was Cairo.
  
  Cleopatra stood at the window, her back to die soft bed and the godlike young man who 
lay there. Divinely he had pleasured her; divinely she had pleasured him. His innocence 
and simple male power were treasures to her; her mystery and skill had overwhelmed him. 
Never had he placed himself in the hands of a woman thus, he had said. Never had he given 
vent to all his whims with such abandon.
  
  And now he slept the sleep that children sleep, safe in the bed, as she stood at the 
window...
  
  ... As dreams came to her, pretending to be memories. It occurred to her that she had 
not known the night since she'd been awakened. She had not known the cool mystery of the 
night, when thoughts tend naturally to deepen. And what came to her now were images of 
other nights, of real palaces, resplendent with marble floors and pillars, and tables 
laden with fruit and roasted meat and wine in silver pitchers. Of Ramses speaking to her, 
as they lay together in the dark.
  
  "I love you, as I've loved no other woman. To live without you ... it would not be 
life."
  
  "My King, my only King,"  she had said." What are the others, but toys on a child's 
battlefield? Little wooden emperors moved by chance from place to place."
  
  It dimmed; it moved away from her. She lost it as she had lost the other memories. And 
what was real was the voice of Alex stirring in his sleep.
  
  "Your Highness, where are you?"
  
  Misery like a spell had descended upon her, and he could not pierce the veil. It was 
too heavy; too dark. She sang to herself, that song, mat sweet song from the music box," 
Celeste Aida."  And men when she turned and saw his face in the moonlight, his eyes 
closed, his hand open on the sheet, she felt a deep and soulful longing. She hummed the 
song, her lips closed as she approached the bed and looked down at him.
  
  Tenderly she stroked his hair. Tenderly her fingertips touched his eyelids. Ah, 
sleeping god, my sweet Endymion. Her hand moved down, lazily, and touched his throat, 
touched the tender bones she had broken in the others.
  
  Frail and mortal thing for all your strength, your finely muscled arms, your smooth 
flat chest, powerful hands that pleasure me.
  
  She didn't want him to know death! She didn't want him to suffer. A great 
protectiveness rose in her. She lifted the white blanket and snuggled down into the warm 
bed beside him. She would never harm this one, never, that she knew. And suddenly death 
itself seemed a frightful and unjust thing.
  
  But why am I immortal when he is not? Ye gods. For one second it seemed a great portal 
opened on a vast place of light and all answers were revealed; her past, who she was, 
what had happened, all those things were clear. But it was dark and quiet in this room. 
There was no such illumination.
  
  "My love, my pretty young love,"  she said, kissing him again. At once he stirred; 
responded. He opened his arms to her.
  
  "Your Highness."
  
  She felt the hardness again between his legs; she wanted it to fill her again, to 
bruise her. She smiled to herself. If one cannot be immortal, one should at least be 
young, she thought ruefully.
  
  Ramses had listened silently for a long time before he spoke.
  
  "So what you are saying is that we must tell this elaborate tale to the authorities, 
that I argued with him, followed him inside, saw him take the mummy from the case, and 
then the soldiers apprehended me."
  
  "You lied for Egypt when you were King, did you not? You lied to your people when you 
told them you were the living god."
  
  "But, Elliott,"  Julie broke in." What if these crimes continue?"
  
  "And they very well might,"  said Ramses impatiently," if I don't get out of here and 
find her."
  
  "There is no proof that Henry's dead,"  Elliott said," and no one is going to find any. 
It's perfectly plausible that Henry's roaming around Cairo. And what is plausible is what 
they'll accept. Pitfield leapt at this nonsense. So will they. And they can hunt for 
Henry as you hunt for her. But Alex and Julie will be safely out of it by then."
  
  "No, I told you,"  Julie said," I'll persuade Alex logo..."
  
  "Julie, I can come to you later in London,"  Ramses said." Lord Rutherford's a clever 
man. He would have made a good King, or a King's wily adviser."
  
  Elliott gave a bitter smile and drank down his third glass of straight gin.
  
  "I shall make this poetry of lies as convincing as I can. What else must we discuss?"  
Ramses said.
  
  "It's settled. Ten A.M. you must call me. By then I'll have a guarantee of immunity for 
you from the governor himself. Then you must come to the governor's palace and make your 
statement. And we do not leave without the passports."
  
  "Very well,"  Ramses said." I leave you now. Wish me good fortune."
  
  "But where will you begin to search?"  Julie asked." And when will you sleep?"
  
  "You forget, my beauty. I don't need to sleep. I'll search for her until we meet here 
again before ten o'clock. Lord Rutherford, if this fails to work ..."
  
  "It will work. And we shall go to the opera tomorrow night precisely as planned and to 
