  Ramses stepped forward suddenly. He took her arm roughly, and pulled her away from Alex.
  
  "I must speak to you,"  he said, glaring down at her," now, alone."
  
</pre>
<!--N=15600 M=15800 pt=-->
  "Ramsey, what in the world are you doing?"
  
  Others had turned to stare at them.
  
  "Alex, stay here!"  said his father.
  
  Ramses pulled her farther away. She turned her ankle in the high shoes." Let me go!"  
she whispered.
  
  In a blur, she saw pale Julie Stratford turning desperately to the dark-faced Egyptian, 
and old Lord Rutherford physically restraining his son.
  
  In a rage, she drew back from Ramses, startling him, freeing herself at once. Gasps 
from all these strange modern people, who looked as they pretended not to look. A hush 
had fallen around them, though the music roared over it.
  
  "We will speak when I say, my beloved teacher! You interfere just now with my 
pleasures, just as you always did in the past."
  
  Alex rushed to her side. She slipped her arm around him as once again Ramses advanced 
on her.
  
  "What in God's name is the matter with you, Ramsey!"  Alex protested.
  
  "I tell you now, we are to speak, you and I, alone,"  Ramses said to her, ignoring her 
lover.
  
  Her anger went before her words and her words went before her thoughts.
  
  "You think you can force me to do your will! I'll pay you out for what you've done to 
me! I'll pay you in kind!"
  
  He grabbed her, swinging her away from Alex, whose father moved in again to take his 
arm. She glanced back to see Alex vanishing as the crowds closed in front of him, Ramses 
forcing her deeper into the dancers, refusing to let her go, though she struggled, his 
right hand clutching her left wrist, his left hand locked on her waist.
  
  All about them couples whirled to the deafening music and its deep throbbing rhythmic 
beat. He forced her into the dance as he towered over her, lifting her off her feet as he 
turned her about.
  
  "Let go of me!"  she hissed." You think I'm the same mad creature you left in that 
hovel in old Cairo. You think I am your slave!"
  
  "No, no, I can see you are different,"  dropping into the old Latin." But who are you, 
really?"
  
  "Your magic has restored my mind, my memory. All that I suffered-it is there, and I 
hate you now more truly than I did before."
  
  How stunned he was; how he suffered. Was she supposed to pity him?
  
  "You have always been magnificent at suffering!"  She spat the words at him." And in 
your judgments! But I am not your slave or your property. What you have brought back to 
life would be free to live."
  
  "It is you,"  he whispered." The Queen who was wise as well as impulsive? Who loved 
recklessly but knew always how to conquer and rule?"
  
  "Yes, precisely. The Queen who begged you to share your gift with one mortal man, but 
you refused her. Selfish, spiteful and petty in the end."
  
  "Oh, no, you know it is not true."  Same old charm, same old persuasiveness. And the 
same fierce and unyielding will." It would have been a ghastly error!"
  
  "And I? Am I not an error!"
  
  She struggled to free herself. She couldn't. Again he turned her in a great circle to 
the rhythm of the music, skirts brushing
  
  her as others danced around them, oblivious, it seemed, to her struggle.
  
  "Last night you told me that when you were dying, you tried to call out to me,"  he 
said." The venom of the snake had paralyzed you. Were you telling me the truth?"
  
  Again she tried to pull loose." Do not say these things to me!"  she said. She jerked 
her left arm away from him, but he caught it again. Now die others did see what was 
happening. Heads were turning. A pair of dancers had stopped in alarm.
  
  "Answer me,"  he demanded." Did you try to call out to me in those last moments? Is 
that true?"
  
  "You think that justifies what you have done!"  She forced him to a halt. She would not 
be dragged along by him." I was afraid. I was at death's door!"  she confessed." It was 
fear, not love! You think I could ever forgive you for letting Antony die?"
  
  "Oh, it's you,"  he said softly. They stood motionless together." It is really you. My 
Cleopatra, with all your duplicity and passion. It is you."
  
  "Yes, and I speak the truth when I say I hate you,"  she cried, die tears springing to 
her eyes." Ramses the Damned! I curse the day I let the light of the sun into your tomb. 
When your sweet mortal Julie Stratford is lying dead at your feet as Antony lay dead at 
mine, you will know the meaning of wisdom, of love, the power of she who always conquers 
and rules. Your Julie Stratford is mortal. Her neck can be snapped like a river reed."
  
  Did she mean these words? She didn't know. She knew the hatred and all the love that 
had heated it, made it possible. In a fury she drew back, at last free of him, and turned 
to flee.
  
  "No, you will not hurt her. You will not hurt Alex, either,"  he cried out in Latin." 
Or anyone else."
  
  She shoved the dancers out of her path. A woman screamed; a man stumbled into his 
partner. Others struggled to make way for her. She turned and saw him bearing down on 
her, calling out to her.
  
  "I will put you back into die grave before I will let you do it. Into the darkness."
  
  In terror, she plowed through the crowd before her. The air was rife with screams 
everywhere. But the door lay ahead, and freedom, and she ran towards it with all her 
strength.
  
  "Wait, stop, listen to me,"  Ramses shouted.
  
  Glancing back as she reached the doors, she saw that Alex had ahold of him." Stop, 
Ramsey, let her go!"  Other men were surrounding Ramses.
  
  She ran on to the top of the stairs. Now it was Alex's voice calling her, begging her 
to wait, not to be afraid. But Ramses would get free of his captors. They could not hold 
him, and his threats rang in her ears.
  
  Down the steps she ran, clutching to the railing, badly hampered by the high-heeled 
shoes.
  
  "Your Highness,"  Alex shouted.
  
  She rushed through the lobby and out the front doors. A car had just stopped at the 
foot of the steps. The man and woman were already out of it, the servant holding the door 
open.
  
  She glanced back. Alex was running down the staircase, and Ramses was right behind him.
  
  "Your Highness! Wait!"
  
  She dashed around the car, and shoved die baffled servant out of her path. She slid 
behind the wheel and slammed her foot on the pedal. As it raced forward, Alex vaulted 
over die side door and fell down into the seat beside her. She struggled to control the 
wheel, barely missing the garden, turning back onto the street that led to the boulevard.
  
  "God in heaven,"  Alex shouted over the wind." He's taken the car behind us. He's 
following us."
  
  She forced the pedal to the floor, turning dangerously to avoid the car directly in 
front of her, and then racing ahead into the open lane.
  
  "Your Highness, you'll kill us!"
  
  The cold air struck her face as she leaned forward, twisting and turning the wheel to 
pass the sluggish cars that would not get out of her way. Alex pleaded with her. But she 
heard only Ramses' voice in her ears:" I will put you back into the grave ... into the 
darkness."  To get away, she had to get away.
  
  "I won't let him hurt you."
  
  At last the boulevard had given way to the open country road. Nothing in her path now. 
Yet she kept the pedal jammed to the floor.
  
  Somewhere far out there lay the pyramids, and then the desert, the open desert. But how 
could she hide there; where would she go?
  
  "Is he still behind us?"  she screamed.
  
  "Yes, but I won't let them hurt you, I told you! Listen to me."
  
  "No,"  she screamed." Do not try to stop me!"  She shoved at him as he went to embrace 
her. The car twisted, went off the paving. Over the packed sand it plowed, plunging into 
the blackness, headlamps shining dimly on the open desert. She had lost the road!
  
  Far off to the right she saw a twinkling light moving as if towards her. Then she heard 
that sound, that awful sound: the scream of the steam locomotive! Ye gods, where was it!
  
  Panic seized her. She could hear the low rumble of the iron wheels!
  
  "Where is it!"  she screamed." Stop, you have to. Don't try to race it!"  A glare of 
lights struck the little mirror above her, bunding her. She threw up her hands for an 
instant, then grabbed the wheel again. Then she saw the horror of horrors, the great 
roaring monster that had terrified her more than anything else. The giant black iron 
locomotive looming down on her right." The brakes!"  Alex cried.
  
  The motor car bumped, rose up in the air and caught at a dead halt. The locomotive 
passed only a foot in front of her, the huge grinding wheels directly before her eyes.
  
  "We're caught on the tracks, damn it, come on, get out!"  Alex cried.
  
  The whistle came again, screaming over the iron rumbling. Another one was coming 
towards her from the left! She saw its round yellow eye, the beam sweeping over her, its 
great flaring iron skirt as it thundered down the metal path.
  
  They had her, these things; they had her. How could she escape them? And Ramses was 
behind her, Ramses was shouting her name. She felt Alex grab her arm and try to pull her 
out of the seat. The hideous locomotive was on top of her; as it struck the car she 
screamed.
  
  Her body was thrown upwards. In one glaring moment she felt herself flying, high above 
the desert, tossed like a doll into the wind. Below the horrid iron monsters travelled 
past each other, over the endless sands. Then a searing flash of orange fire rose under 
her; unendurable heat enveloped her with a great deafening sound the like of which she 
had never before heard.
  
  Ramses was thrown backwards by the explosion. He landed sprawling on the sand. One 
</pre>
<!--N=15800 M=16000 pt=-->
instant he had seen her body, thrown up and out of the car. The next the car had 
exploded, and she had been swallowed in midair by a great plume of orange flame. Again 
the explosion rocked the earth with its force, the fire spewing even higher. And for a 
moment he could see nothing at all.
  
  As he scrambled to his feet, the great northbound locomotive was trying to stop. 
Wheezing, grinding still, it lumbered on the burning wreckage of the car shoved to the 
side, off the track. The southbound train roared on, oblivious, its rattling boxcars 
adding to the unbearable noise.
  
  He ran towards the burning car. The mangled frame looked like blackened timbers in the 
rolling, greasy blaze.
  
  He could see no life, no movement, no sign of her! He was about to run into the fire 
itself when Samir grabbed him. When he heard Julie scream.
  
  In a daze he turned and looked at them. Alex Savarell was struggling to get up, his 
clothes blackened and smoking. His father stood beside him, a burnt garment hanging from 
his hand. He would live, the young man. That was clear.
  
  But she! Where was she! Appalled, he stared at the giant trains, the one stopped now, 
the other fast disappearing; had ever the world known such power? And the explosion; it 
had been like a volcano.
  
  "Cleopatra!"  he cried out. Then he felt himself, for all his immortal strength, slowly 
crumpling. Julie Stratford held him in her arms.
  
  The dawn came with a fiery glow on the horizon; the sun, caught in a mist, seemed not 
so much a disk but a great layer of simmering heat. The stars faded slowly.
  
  Once again he walked back and forth over the same stretch of railroad track. Samir 
watched him patiently. Julie Stratford had gone to sleep in the backseat of the car.
  
  Elliott and his son had returned to the hotel.
  
  Faithful Samir alone stood with him, as once again he examined the burnt mangled car. 
Horrid the skeleton of the thing. Horrid the bits and pieces of charred leather clinging 
to the blackened springs.
  
  "Sire,"  Samir said patiently," nothing could survive such an explosion. In the olden 
times, sire, such heat was unknown."
  
  It was known, he thought. It was known in the eye of an erupting mountain, the very 
image that had come to him last night.
  
  "But there must be some trace, Samir. Something must remain."
  
  But why punish this poor mortal who had never done anything but give him comfort? And 
Julie, his poor Julie. He must take her back to the safety and quiet of the hotel. She 
had not spoken since it happened. She had stood by him, holding on to him, but she had 
not spoken a word.
  
  "Sire, give thanks for what has taken place,"  Samir said tentatively." Death has 
reclaimed her. Surely she is at peace again."
  
  "Is she?"  he whispered." Samir, why did I frighten her! Why did I drive her out into 
the night? Samir, we quarrelled as we had always quarrelled. We strove to hurt each 
other! There was no time suddenly; we stood outside it, warring with each other."  He 
broke off, unable to go on.
  
  "Come rest now, sire. Even immortals must rest."
  
  THEY STOOD all together in the train station. For A Ramses, a moment of the most pure 
and undiluted anguish. But he had no more words to use to persuade her; when he looked 
into her eyes, he saw not a coldness, but a deep and unhealing hurt.
  
  And Alex, he was changed now into another human being with Alex's face and form. He had 
listened resentfully to the half-truths they'd given him. A woman Ramsey had known; mad; 
dangerous. Then he had closed himself off; he wanted to hear no more.
  
  They were older now, this young man and this young woman. There was a faint greyness in 
Julie's expression; there was a numbness and sullen quiet to Alex as he stood at her side.
  
  "They won't keep me here more than a few days,"  Elliott said to his son." I'll be home 
perhaps a week after your arrival. Take care of Julie. If you take care of Julie ..."
  
  "I know, Father, it will be the best thing for me."
  
  Icy the smile that had once been so warm.
  
  The conductor made his call. The train was ready to roll out of the station. Ramses did 
not want to see it moving; did not want to hear that noise. He wanted to escape now, but 
he knew that he would stay till the end.
  
  "You will not change your mind,"  he whispered.
  
  She continued to look away.
  
  "I'll always love you,"  she whispered. He had to bend down to hear it, let her lips 
almost touch him." To my dying day, I shall love you. But no, I cannot change my mind."
  
  Alex took his hand suddenly." Good-bye, Ramsey, Hope I see you in England."
  
  The ritual was almost over; he turned to kiss Julie, but she'd already pulled away. She 
was on the metal stair into the passenger car, and then for one instant their eyes met.
  
  It wasn't reproach; it wasn't condemnation; she couldn't do anything else. She had 
explained it a thousand times in those same few words.
  
  Finally the noise again, the awful engulfing sound. With uneven chugs, the string of 
windowed cars began to move forward; he saw her face at the window. She pressed her hand 
to the glass and looked down at him again, and again he tried to interpret the look in 
her eyes. Was there a moment's regret?
  
  Dully, miserably, he heard Cleopatra's voice. I called out for you in those last 
moments.
  
  The train was sliding by; the window was suddenly bright silver as it moved into the 
sunlight; he couldn't see her anymore.
  
  It seemed the Earl of Rutherford led him out of the station to where the motor cars 
waited, with the uniformed chauffeurs at their open doors.
  
  "Where will you go?"  the Earl asked him.
  
  Ramses was watching the train disappear, the last car with its little iron gate growing 
smaller and smaller, the noise entirely manageable now.
  
  "Does it matter?"  he answered. Then as if waking from a spell, he looked at Elliott. 
Elliott's expression surprised him almost as much as Julie's. No reproach; only a 
thoughtful sadness." What have you learned from all this, my lord?"  he asked suddenly.
  
  "It will take time to know that, Ramses. Time, perhaps, which I do not have."
  
  Ramses shook his head." After all you have seen,"  he asked, dropping his voice so that 
only Elliott could hear him," would you still ask for the elixir? Or would you refuse as 
Julie has refused?"
  
  The train was gone now. Silence reigned in the empty station. If one did not count the 
low hum of conversation here and there.
  
  "Does it really matter now, Ramses?"  Elliott asked, and for the first time Ramses saw 
a flash of bitterness and resentment in Elliott.
  
  He took Elliott's hand." We shall meet again,"  he said." Now I must go, or I will be 
late."
  
  "But where are you going?"  Elliott asked him.
  
  He didn't answer. He turned and waved as he crossed the train yard. Elliott 
acknowledged it with a polite little nod and a scant movement of his hand, then moved on 
to his waiting car.
  
  Late afternoon. Elliott opened his eyes. The sun fell in .slashes through the wooden 
blinds, the fan churning slowly overhead.
  
  He lifted his gold pocket watch from the bedside table. Past three. Their ship had 
sailed. He enjoyed the relief for a long moment before thinking of anything else that he 
must do.
  
  Then he heard Walter open the door.
  
  "Have those damned people from the governor's office called yet?"  Elliott asked.
  
  "Yes, my lord. Twice. I told them you were sleeping and I had not the slightest 
intention of disturbing your rest."
  
  "You're a good man, Walter. And may they burn in hell."
  
  "My lord?"
  
  "Never mind, Walter."
  
  "Oh and Your Lordship, the Egyptian fellow's been by."
  
  "Samir?"
  
  'Brought the bottle of medicine from Ramsey. It's right there, my lord. Said you'd know 
what it was."
  
  "What?"  Elliott rose on his elbows. Then, slowly, he turned his gaze away from Walter 
to the table on his right.
  
  It was a flask bottle, the kind used for vodka or whisky, but with no color to the 
glass. And it was filled entirely with a milk-white liquid, which gave off strange, 
almost luminescent glints in the light.
  
  "I'd be careful of that, my lord,"  Walter said, opening the door," if it's some kind 
of Egyptian thing, I'd watch my step."
  
  Elliott almost laughed aloud. There was a note by the bottle with his name on it. He 
sat up and remained there motionless until Walter was gone. Then he reached for the note, 
and tore it open.
  
  It was printed in block letters very like Roman printing, angular and clean.
  
  Lord Rutherford, it is now your decision. May your philosophy and your wisdom sustain 
you. May you choose the right path.
  
  He couldn't absorb it. No, he simply couldn't believe it. He stared at the note for a 
long moment; then he looked at the flask.
  
  She lay in half sleep on the pillow. When she opened her eyes, she realized that it was 
her own voice that had awakened her. She'd been calling Ramses. She rose from bed slowly 
and pulled on her robe. Did it matter if anyone saw her out on the deck of the ship in 
her robe? But it was dinner-time, wasn't it? She had to dress. Alex needed her. Oh, if 
only she could think straight. She went to the wardrobe and began pulling things out. 
Where were they? How many hours had they been at sea?
  
  When she reached the table, he was sitting there staring forward. He did not greet her, 
</pre>
<!--N=16000 M=16200 pt=-->
or rise to help her with her chair. As if any of that mattered. He started talking.
  
  "I still don't understand any of it. Truly I don't. She didn't seem mad at all, really."
  
  This was excruciating, but she forced herself to listen.
  
  "I mean, there was something sombre and sad about her,"  he said." I only know that I 
loved her. And that she loved me."  He turned to Julie." Do you believe what I'm saying?"
  
  "Yes, I do,"  she said.
  
  "You know, she said the strangest things. She said that she hadn't planned to love me! 
But it had happened, and you know, I told her I knew just what she meant. I 'd never 
thought I... I mean, it was altogether different. As if all your life You've thought that 
pink roses were red roses!"
  
  "Yes, I know."
  
  "And that tepid water was hot."
  
  "Yes."
  
  "Did you get a good look at her? Did you see how beautiful she was?"
  
  "It's not going to help to dwell on it. You can't make her come back."
  
  "I knew I would lose her. I knew from the start. I don't know why. I simply knew it. 
She wasn't of this world, do you understand? And yet she was the world more truly than 
anything I 'd ever..."
  
  "I know."
  
  He stared forward; he appeared to be looking at the other diners; the black-jacketed 
waiters moving about; maybe listening to the hushed civilized voices. Almost entirely a 
British ship. There seemed something utterly revolting about that.
  
  "It's possible to forget!"  she said suddenly." It is possible, I know that it is."
  
  "Yes, forget it,"  he said, and he smiled coldly, though not at her in particular." 
Forget it," he repeated." That's what we'll do. You'll forget Ramsey, as clearly 
something's happened to separate you. And I'll forget her. And we will go through the 
motions of living as if we had never loved like that, either of us. You and Ramsey and I 
with her."
  
  Julie found herself looking at him in mild shock. She narrowed her eyes.
  
  "The motions of living!"  she whispered." What a horrible thing to say."
  
  He hadn't even heard her. He had picked up the fork and started eating, or rather 
picking at the food. Going through the motions of eating it.
  
  She sat there trembling, looking down at the plate.
  
  It was dark outside now. A blue light shone through the slatted blinds. Walter had come 
again to ask him if he wanted supper. He had said no. Only to be alone.
  
  He sat in his robe and slippers, looking at the flask on the table. It shimmered in the 
darkness. The note lay where he had left it, beside the flask.
  
  Finally he got up to dress. It took him several minutes, because each part of it made 
some special demand on his patience, but finally it was finished. He had on his grey 
wool, a bit too heavy for the days here, yet perfect for the night.
  
  And then he went to the table, leaning on his cane with his left hand, and lifted the 
flask with his right. He put the flask in his inside pocket, where it just barely fit, 
making a weight against his chest.
  
  Then he went out. The pain in his leg grew worse after he had walked a short distance 
from Shepheard's. But he continued, now and then shifting the cane to the other side to 
see if that made it any better. He stopped when he had to; then when he'd caught his 
breath he moved on.
  
  In about an hour, he'd reached old Cairo. He made his way through the alleyways, 
aimlessly. He did not search for Malenka's house. He merely walked. And walked. By 
midnight, his left foot was numb again. But it didn't matter.
  
  Everywhere that he walked, he looked at things. He looked at walls, and doors, and 
people's faces; he stopped in front of cabarets and listened to the dissonant music. Now 
and then he glimpsed a belly dancer going through her seductive little performance. Once 
he paused to listen to a man playing a flute.
  
  He didn't linger very long anywhere, except when he was very tired; then he sat, and 
sometimes even dozed. The night was quiet; peaceful. It seemed to harbor none of the 
dangers of London.
  
  As two o'clock came he was still walking. He had covered the medieval city, and he was 
moving back to the newer districts again.
  
  Julie stood at the rail, clutching the ends of her shawl. She looked down at the dark 
water, vaguely conscious that she was bitterly cold, that her hands were freezing. But it 
didn't matter. And it seemed lovely suddenly that such things weren't hurting her. That 
she didn't care.
  
  She wasn't here at all. She was at home in London. She was standing in the 
conservatory, and it was all full of flowers. Ramses stood there, the linen wrappings 
covering him; he raised his hand as she watched and tore them loose from his face. The 
blue eyes looked directly at her, at once full of love.
  
  "No, it's wrong,"  she whispered. But to whom was she speaking? There was no one here 
to hear what she said. All the ship slept, all the civilized British travellers going 
home after their little sojourn in Egypt, so happy to have seen the pyramids, the 
temples. Destroy the elixir. Every drop of it.
  
  She stared down into the turbulent sea. The wind suddenly ripped at her hair, at the 
edges of the shawl. She gripped the railing, and the shawl was lifted off her shoulders 
and blown away, rolling into a ball as it was carried up and out into the dark.
  
  The mist swallowed it. She never saw it hit the water. And the sound of the wind and 
the sound of the engines merged suddenly, and seemed to be of the same fabric as the mist.
  
  Her world, gone. Her world of faded colors and dim noises, gone. She heard his voice 
speaking to her, "I love you, Julie Stratford."  She heard herself say, "I wish I'd never 
laid eyes on you. That you had let Henry do his work."
  
  She smiled suddenly. Had she ever been this cold in her life? She looked down. She was 
wearing only a thin nightgown. No wonder. And the truth was, she ought to be dead now. 
Dead like her father. Henry had put the poison in her cup. She closed her eyes, turning 
her face this way and that in the wash of the wind.
  
  "I love you, Julie Stratford,"  his voice came again in memory, and this time she heard 
herself answer with the old cliche" , so beautiful." I shall love you till my dying day."
  
  It was no use going home. It was no use, any of it. The motions of living. The 
adventure had ended. The nightmare had ended. And now the normal world would be the 
nightmare, unless she was with her father, or alone sealed off from all reality, her last 
thoughts only of all the glorious moments that had been.
  
  In the tent with him, making love to him, his at last. In the temple under the stars.
  
  She would tell no children in old age why she had never married. She would tell no 
young man the story of the voyage to Cairo. She would not be that woman, harbouring all 
her life a terrible knowledge, a terrible regret.
  
  But this was too harsh, all of this. No need for such literal thoughts. The dark waters 
waited. She'd be carried far, faraway from the ship within moments;- there would be no 
chance of salvation. And that seemed to her to be inexpressibly beautiful suddenly. She 
had only to climb up, which she did now, and let herself go into the cold wind.
  
  Why, the wind would even carry her partway. It had caught her gown and was blowing it 
out behind her. She stretched out her arms and pitched herself forward. It seemed the 
wind grew louder and she was flying out towards the water. It was done!
  
  In one split second she knew that nothing could save her, nothing could possibly 
intervene; she was already falling, and she wanted to say her father's name. But it was 
Ramses' name that came to her mind. Ah, the sweetness of it, the utter sweetness of all 
of it.
  
  Then two strong arms caught her. She hung suspended above the sea, stunned, groping to 
see through the mist.
  
  "No, Julie."  It was Ramses pleading with her. Ramses who lifted her over the railing 
and held her tightly in his arms. Ramses standing on the deck with her in his arms." Not 
death over life, Julie, no."
  
  In a torrent the sobs broke from her; like ice she shattered, the warm tears spilling 
down her face as she hugged him and buried her face against his chest.
  
  She said his name over and over. She felt his arms closing her off from the searing 
wind.
  
  Cairo woke with the sun. The heat seemed to rise from the dirt streets themselves as 
the bazaar came to life, as the striped awnings fell down over doorways, as the sounds of 
camels and donkeys rose.
  
  Elliott was thoroughly tired now. He couldn't resist sleep much longer, but still he 
walked. Sluggishly he moved past the brass merchants and the rug merchants, and the 
sellers of gellebiyyas and of fake antiquities-cheap Egyptian "treasures"  for a few 
pence. The sellers of mummies, who claimed now to offer for a pittance the bodies of 
Kings.
  
  Mummies. They stood along the whitewashed wall in the burning sunlight; mummies, 
soiled, worn, in their bedraggled wrappings, yet the features of their faces 
distinguishable beneath the layers of linen and grime.
  
  He stopped. AH the thoughts with which he'd wrestled the night long seemed to leave 
him. The images of those he loved which had been so close to him suddenly faded. He was 
in the bazaar; the sun was burning down on him; he was looking at a row of dead bodies 
against a wall.
  
  Malenka's words came back to him.
  
  "They make a great Pharaoh of my English. My beautiful English. They put him in the 
bitumen; they make a mummy of him for tourists to buy... My beautiful English, they wrap 
him in linen; they make him a King."
  
  He moved closer; irresistibly drawn by what he saw, though it repelled him completely. 
He felt the first wave of nausea strike him as his eyes locked on the first mummy, the 
tallest and leanest, propped at the near end of the wall. Then the second wave came as 
the merchant stepped forward, belly preceding him beneath his striped cotton robes, hands 
clasped behind his back.
  
  "Allow me to offer you a great bargain!"  said the merchant." This one here is not like 
the others. See? If you look you can see the fine bones of this one, for he was a great 
King. Come! Come closer. Have a good look at him."
  
  Slowly Elliott obeyed. The wrappings were thick, moldering, as ancient in appearance as 
any he had ever seen! And the smell rising from them, the rotting, stinking smell of 
earth and bitumen; but there, beneath that thick veneer, he could see the face; see the 
nose and the broad plain of the forehead, see clearly the sunken eyes, the thin mouth! He 
was staring at the face of Henry Stratford, and there was no doubt.
</pre>
<!--N=16200 M=16400 pt=-->
  
  The morning sun broke in glorious rays through the round porthole, piercing the sheer 
white veils of the small brass bed.
  
  They sat together against the barred bedstead; warm from their lovemaking; warm from 
the wine they'd drunk.
  
  Now she watched as he filled the tumbler from the vial. Tiny lights danced in the 
strange liquid. He held it out to her.
  
  She took it from him, then looked into his eyes. For one tiny moment she was afraid 
again. And it seemed suddenly she was not in this room. She was on the deck in the mist 
and it was cold. The sea was waiting. Then she shivered, and the warm sun melted over her 
skin, and she saw the touch of fear in his eyes too.
  
  Only human, only a man, she thought. He does not know what will happen any more than I 
do! And she smiled.
  
  She drank the tumbler down.
  
  "The body of a King, I tell you,"  said the merchant, leaning forward in farcical 
confidentiality." I give to you for nothing! Because I like you. I see you are a 
gentleman. You have good taste. This mummy, you can get it out of Egypt, it's nothing. I 
pay the bribe for you..." On and on went the chant of lies, the song of commerce, the 
idiot imitation of truth.
  
  Henry under that gauze! Henry locked in the filthy bandages forever! Henry whom he had 
caressed in that little room in Paris a lifetime ago.
  
  "Come now, sir, don't turn your back upon the mysteries of Egypt, sir, deepest darkest 
Egypt, sir. Land of magic ..."
  
  The voice faded; echoed for a moment as he stumbled a few steps away and towards the 
full light of the sun.
  
  A great burning disk, it hung over the rooftops. It flashed in his eyes as he looked up 
at it.
  
  And never taking his eyes off it, he grasped the cane firmly as he reached into his 
coat and pulled out the flask. Then dropping the cane altogether, he opened the flask and 
drank the contents in great easy gulps to the very last drop.
  
  Petrified as the chills passed through him, he let the flask fell into the dirt. He 
felt the heat in spasms. He felt his numb leg come to life. The great weight in his chest 
slowly melted; and stretching his limbs with the utter abandon of an animal, he stared 
wide-eyed at the glaring sky; at the golden disk.
  
  Before him the world pulsed, shimmered, then became solid again as he had not seen it 
since his middle years when his vision had begun to slowly fail. He saw the grains of 
earth at his feet.
  
  Stepping over the silver walking stick, ignoring the shouts of the merchant behind him 
that he had lost his cane and must wait, he walked out of the bazaar with long easy 
strides.
  
  The sun was high above in the noon sky as he left Cairo, as he walked on along the thin 
road to the east. He did not really know where he was going and it didn't matter. There 
were monuments and wonders and cities enough to behold. His steps were quick, and the 
desert had never seemed so beautiful to him, this great monotonous ocean of sand.
  
  He had done it! And there was no undoing of it now. Eyes fixed on the vast azure 
emptiness above him, he gave a soft cry intended for no one, merely the smallest, most 
spontaneous expression of his joy.
  
  They stood on the deck, the warm sun blanketing them as they embraced one another. She 
could feel the magic moving through her skin and her hair. She felt his lips graze hers, 
and suddenly they were kissing as they had never really kissed before. It was the same 
fire, yes, but now her strength and her urgency came to the fore to meet his.
  
  He lifted her and carried her back into the little bedroom and laid her down on the 
bed. The veiling fell silently around them, snaring the light and wrapping them up in it.
  
  "You are mine, Julie Stratford,"  he whispered." My Queen forever. And I am yours. 
Always yours."
  
  "Lovely words,"  she whispered, smiling at him almost sadly. She wanted always to 
remember this moment; to remember the look in his blue eyes.
  
  Then slowly, yet feverishly, they began to make love.
  
  THE YOUNG doctor grabbed his bag and ran towards the infirmary, the young foot soldier 
running beside him.
  
  "Just dreadful, sir, burned to a crisp, sir, and wedged down there under the crates at 
the very bottom of the freight car. I don't know how she can be alive."
  
  What in God's name was he going to be able to do for her, out here at this godforsaken 
outpost in the jungles of die Sudan?
  
  He steadied himself against the doorjamb as he came to a halt inside the room.
  
  The nurse shook her head as she came towards him. "I don't understand it,"  she said in 
a stage whisper, with a pointed glance at the bed.
  
  "Let me see her."  He pulled back the mosquito netting." Why, this woman's not burned 
at all."
  
  She lay asleep against the white pillow, her black wavy hair stirring in the sunlight, 
as if there actually were a ghost of a breeze coming from somewhere through this 
infernally hot room.
  
  If he had ever seen a woman this beautiful, he couldn't remember it and frankly didn't 
want to be reminded of it just now. It was almost painful to look at her, she was so 
beautiful. And it wasn't a china doll prettiness she had; her features were strong though 
exquisitely proportioned. Her rippling hair, parted in the middle, made a great shining 
pyramid of darkness beneath her head.
  
  As he came round the side of the bed, she opened her eyes. How remarkable that they 
should be so startlingly blue. Then the miracle of miracles. She smiled. He went weak 
looking down at her. Words like "fate"  and "destiny"  came to his mind, idly, yet 
persistently. Who in the world could she be?
  
  "What a handsome man you are,"  she whispered. Perfect British accent. One of us, he 
thought, hating himself instantly for the snobbish thought. But her voice was purely 
aristocratic.
  
  The nurse mumbled something. There were whispers behind his back. He drew up the camp 
chair and sat down beside her. As casually as he could he lifted the white sheet up over 
her half-naked breasts.
  
  "Get this woman some clothing,"  he said without looking up at the nurse." You gave us 
all quite a scare, you realize. They thought you were burned."
  
  "Did they?"  she whispered." It was kind of them to help me. I was in some close place 
where I could scarcely breathe. I was in the dark."
  
  She blinked up at the sunlight coming in the window." You must help me up and out into 
the sunshine,"  she said.
  
  "Oh, it's much too soon for that."
  
  But she sat up, clearly undeterred, and started to wrap the sheet about her like a 
gown. The fine dark eyebrows gave her a distinct look of will and determination, which he 
found oddly exciting in a very direct physical way.
  
  Like a goddess she looked, with the thing draped over one shoulder as she rose to her 
feet. Again that smile flashed at him, subduing him utterly.
  
  "Listen, you must tell me who you are. Your family, your friends, we'll send word."
  
  "Walk outside with me,"  she said.
  
  He followed her almost stupidly, taking her hand. Let them whisper! They'd come running 
with stories that she was burnt like overdone beef! There was nothing at all wrong with 
this woman! Had the world gone mad?
  
  She went across the dusty yard, leading him through the gate into the small garden, 
which was his actually, not for the patients, just adjacent to his bedroom and his office 
doors.
  
  She sat down on the wooden bench, and he sat beside her. She threw back her hair as she 
looked up into the hot sky.
  
  "But it's no use your being out in this terrible heat,"  he told her" Especially if you 
have been burned."  But this was stupid. Her skin was flawless and radiant all over; her 
cheeks were beautifully flushed. He'd never seen a healthier human being in his life.
  
  "Is there someone I should contact?"  he tried again." We have a telephone and a 
telegraph out here now.
  
  "Don't concern yourself about it,"  she said, lifting his left hand and playing idly 
with his fingers. He was ashamed suddenly of what this aroused in him. He couldn't stop 
staring at her, at her eyes and then at her mouth. He could see her nipples through the 
sheet.
  
  "I have friends, yes,"  she said almost dreamily," and appointments to keep. And 
accounts to settle. But tell me about yourself, Doctor. And tell me about this place."
  
  Did she want him to kiss her? He could scarcely believe it and he had no intention of 
passing it up. He bent to touch her lips, hmmm. He didn't care who was watching. He ran 
his arms around her, and gathered her against him, stunned by the manner in which she 
yielded completely, breasts hot against his chest.
  
  In another second he would drag her to the bed, if she wouldn't come of her own free 
will. But he knew she would.
  
  "There's no great hurry to contact anyone,"  she whispered as she ran her hand inside 
his shirt. They were on their feet, moving together across the flags towards the bedroom 
door. She stopped as if she could not even wait for that. He picked her up and carried 
her.
  
  Sinful, wicked, but he couldn't stop himself. She clamped her mouth on his and he 
almost dropped in his tracks. He set her down on the mattress, and shut the wooden 
blinds. To hell with everyone else.
  
  "You're sure you ..."  he faltered. He was ripping off his shirt.
  
  "I like men who blush,"  she whispered, gazing up." And yes, I'm sure. I want to be 
prepared before I see my friends again."  She unwound the sheet." Very well prepared."
  
  "What?"  He lay down beside her, kissing her throat, running his hand down over her 
breast. Her hips rose against him as he climbed on top of her. She was undulating like a 
serpent in the bed, but she was no serpent. She was warm and fragrant and ready for him!
  
  "My friends ..."  she whispered, staring at the ceiling as if faintly dazed, a tiny 
spark of distress in her blue eyes. But then she looked at him-all hunger suddenly, voice 
dropping to a monotone as she stroked him, her nails deliciously grazing his shoulders." 
My friends can wait. We have time to see each other. All the time in the world!"
  
  He hadn't the slightest idea what she meant. And he didn't care.

  THE END
</pre>
