  Elliott gave a short laugh." If this thing or person or whatever it is tried to 
strangle you, why is Julie protecting it? Why hasn't it strangled her?"
  
  Henry stared forward blankly for a moment. Then he took another deep gulp from the 
glass. Elliott eyed him coldly. Not mad. No. Hysterical, but not mad.
  
  "What I am asking,"  Elliott said softly," is why would it try to harm you?"
  
  "For the love of hell, it's a mummy, isn't it? I was the one traipsing about over there 
in its bloody tomb! Not Julie. I found Lawrence dead in the damned tomb-"
  
  Henry stopped, as if he had just realized something. He was no longer merely 
blank-faced; he was in a visible state of shock.
  
  Their eyes locked, but only for an instant. Elliott looked down at the fire. This is 
the young man I once cared for, he thought, once caressed with tenderness and hunger; 
once loved. And now he is reaching the end of something, the very end. And revenge ought 
to be sweet, but it isn't.
  
  "Look,"  Henry said. He was almost stammering." There's some sort of twist to this, 
some sort of explanation. But the thing, whatever it is, has to be stopped. It could have 
Julie in some sort of spell."
  
  "I see."
  
  "No, you don't see. You think I'm mad. And you despise me. You always have."
  
  "No, not always."
  
  Again they looked at each other. Henry's face was wet now with perspiration. His lip 
trembled slightly, and then he looked away.
  
  Utterly desperate, Elliott thought. He has nowhere to hide anymore from himself, that's 
the crux of it.
  
  "Well, whatever you think,"  Henry said," I'm not spending another night in that house. 
I'm having my things sent to the club."
  
  "You can't leave her alone there. It isn't proper. And in the absence of a formal 
engagement between Julie and Alex, I cannot properly interfere."
  
  "The hell you can't. And the hell I won't go where I wish. I tell you I won't stay 
there."
  
  He heard Henry turn to go. He heard the glass slammed down on the marble-top sideboard. 
He heard the heavy steps retreating, leaving him alone.
  
  Elliott leaned back against the damask. There was a dull resonating sound that meant 
the front door had been slammed shut.
  
  He tried to see the entire incident in perspective, Henry coming here because Randolph 
did not believe him. What a strange story for a young man to have invented, even one as 
crazed and desperate as Henry. It did not make sense at all.
  
  "Lover of Cleopatra,"  he whispered," guardian of the royal house of Egypt. Ramses the 
Immortal. Ramses the Damned."
  
  Suddenly he wanted to see Samir again. Talk to him. Of course the story was ridiculous, 
but ... No. The whole point was that Henry was deteriorating more rapidly than anyone 
could have predicted. Nevertheless he wanted Samir to know about this.
  
  He removed his pocket watch. Why, it was still very early. He had plenty of time before 
his afternoon appointments. If only he could manage to get himself out of this chair.
  
  He had planted the cane firmly on the hearthstones in front of him when he heard his 
wife's soft tread on the carpet near the door. He sank back again, relieved that he 
wouldn't feel that excruciating pain for a few more moments, and then he looked up into 
her eyes.
  
  He had always liked his wife; and now in the middle of his life, he had discovered that 
he loved her. A woman of impeccable grooming and subtle charm, she looked ageless to him, 
perhaps because he was not erotically attracted to her. But he knew that she was twelve 
years his senior, and therefore old,
  
  and this disturbed him only because he feared age himself, and he feared losing her.
  
  He had always admired her, enjoyed her company; and he needed her money desperately. 
She had never minded that. She appreciated his charm, his social connections, and forgave 
him his secret eccentricities.
  
  She had always known something was wrong with him philosophically, that he was" the 
tainted wether of the flock,"  wholly out of sympathy with his peers and his friends and 
enemies. But she never made an issue of it. Her happiness did not depend upon his 
happiness, it seemed; and she was eternally grateful that he went through the motions of 
social life, and had not run off like Lawrence Stratford to live in Egypt.
  
  He was too crippled now with arthritis to be unfaithful to her any longer, and he 
wondered sometimes whether this was a relief to her, or whether it saddened her. He could 
not make up his mind. They still shared the marriage bed, and probably always would, 
though there was never any urgency or real need, except that of late, he'd been keenly 
aware that he depended upon her and loved her deeply.
  
  He was glad she was home. It lessened the pain of Lawrence's death. But of course he'd 
have to recover her diamond necklace very soon, and that Randolph had promised to pay him 
tomorrow morning for the money he had borrowed against the thing was a great relief to 
him.
  
  Edith looked especially pretty to him now, in her new Paris suit of green wool. She had 
a tailored look about her, except for her bouffant silver hair, which looked all the more 
lovely because of the severity of her clothes and the absence of any jewelry. She never 
wore the diamonds he had borrowed against, except to attend balls. He took pride in the 
fact that she was a handsome woman in her old age, and invariably impressive. People 
liked her, more even than they liked him, which was as it should be.
  
  "I'm going out for a while,"  he said to her." Little errand. You shan't miss me. I'll 
be back in good time for lunch."
  
  She didn't answer. She sat down on the tufted ottoman beside him, and slipped her hand 
over his. How light it felt. Her hands were the only pan of her which revealed age 
without question.
  
  "Elliott, you've borrowed again against my necklace,"  she said.
  
  He was ashamed. He said nothing." I know you did it for Randolph. Henry's debts again. 
Always the same story."
  
  He looked at the coals in front of him. He didn't answer. After all, what was there to 
</pre>
<!--N=3400 M=3600 pt=-->
say? She knew it was safe in the hands of a jeweller trusted by both of them, that the 
advance had been relatively small-easy for her to manage, even if Randolph did not come 
through.
  
  "Why didn't you come to me and tell me you needed money?"  she asked him.
  
  "It's never been easy to do that, my dear. Besides, Henry has made things so difficult 
for Randolph."
  
  "I know. And I know you meant well, as usual."
  
  "As vulgar as it may sound, a loan against a diamond necklace is a small price to pay 
for the Stratford millions. And that's where we are, my dear, trying to make a good 
marriage, as they say, for our son."
  
  "Randolph cannot persuade his niece to marry Alex. He has no influence with her at all. 
You lent the money because you felt sorry for Randolph. Because he's your old friend."
  
  "Perhaps that's true."
  
  He sighed. He wouldn't look at her." Perhaps, in some way, I feel responsible,"  he 
said.
  
  "How could you be responsible? What have you to do with Henry, and what's become of 
him?"  she asked.
  
  He didn't answer. He thought of the hotel room in Paris, and the look of dull misery in 
Henry's eyes when his attempt at extortion had failed. Strange how clear it all was to 
him, the furnishings of that room. Later, when he had discovered the theft of the 
cigarette case and the money, he had sat thinking: I must remember this; I must remember 
.all of it. This mustn't happen to me again.
  
  "I'm sorry about the necklace, Edith,"  he whispered, suddenly stung to think that he 
had stolen from his wife as Henry had stolen from him. He found himself smiling at her, 
even winking, flirting a little as he always did. He gave her a little shrug.
  
  She acknowledged all this with a wicked little smile of her own. Years ago she would 
have said, Don't play the bad boy with me. The fact that she didn't say it anymore didn't 
mean she didn't find him charming.
  
  " Randolph has the money now to cover the loan,"  he assured her, more seriously.
  
  "Not necessary,"  she whispered." Leave it to me."  And now she rose slowly and waited. 
She knew that he could use her help to get up and on his feet. And much as it humiliated 
him, he knew it too.
  
  "Where are you going?"  she asked as she held out her hands.
  
  "Samir Ibrahaim at the museum."
  
  "This mummy again."
  
  "Henry's come up with the strangest story. ..."
  
  ALEX, MY darling,"  she said, taking both his hands in hers." Mr. Ramsey was a good 
friend of Father's. It's quite all right his being here."
  
  "But you're alone..."  He looked disapprovingly at her white peignoir, as well he might.
  
  "Alex, I'm a modern girl. Don't question me! Now off you go and let me take care of my 
guest. In a few days, we'll have lunch, and I'll explain the entire thing-"
  
  "Julie, a few days!"
  
  She kissed him quickly on the lips. She pressed him towards the front door. He gave 
another one of those determined glances back down the hall towards the conservatory.
  
  "Alex, go now. The man's from Egypt; I'm to show him London. And I'm rushed. Please, 
darling dear, do as I ask you."
  
  She all but shoved him out the door. He was too much of a gentleman to protest further. 
He gave her that innocent, baffled look, and then said softly that he would call her this 
evening on the telephone if that was all right.
  
  "Of course,"  she said." You're a sweetheart."  Blowing him a little kiss off the tips 
of her fingers, she shut the door immediately.
  
  She turned and leaned against the wall for a moment, staring back down the hall herself 
at the glass doors. She saw Rita dash by. She heard the sound of the kettle in the 
kitchen. The house was full of warm pungent fragrances of cooking food.
  
  Her heart was pounding again; thoughts did drift through her brain, but they had no 
immediate emotional impact. What mattered for this moment, this absolutely extraordinary 
moment, was that Ramses was there. The immortal maji was there. He was in the 
conservatory.
  
  She made her way back down the hall and stood in the doorway looking at him. He wore 
Father's robe still, though he had removed the shirt with a faint look of distaste for 
the stiff starched fabric. And his hair had reached its fullness now, a great glossy mane 
of soft waves that hung down just below the lobes of his ears, with a deep full lock 
falling again and again on his forehead.
  
  The white wicker table was covered with plates of steaming food. As he read the copy of 
Punch propped before his plate, he ate delicately with his right hand from the meat here, 
and the fruit there, and the bread to his left, and the bits of roasted fowl in front of 
him. It was quite a miracle, in fact, the fastidiousness with which he ate, not touching 
the knives and forks, though he had loved the ornate designs in the old silver.
  
  He had been reading and eating steadily for the last two hours. He had devoured 
quantities of food beyond her wild imaginings. It was like fuel to him, it seemed. He had 
drunk four bottles of wine, two bottles of seltzer, all the milk in the house, and now he 
was taking occasional gulps of brandy.
  
  He was not drunk; on the contrary, he seemed extraordinarily sober. He had gone through 
her English/Egyptian dictionary so rapidly that his scanning and turning the pages had 
made her almost dizzy. The English/Latin dictionary had taken him no more time. The 
system of Arabic numbers side by side with Roman numerals he apparently absorbed within 
minutes. The full concept of zero she could not explain, but she had certainly been able 
to demonstrate it. Then he'd gone through the Oxford English Dictionary with the same 
haste, turning back and forth, running his finger down column after column.
  
  Of course he was not reading every word. He was getting the gist, the roots, the 
fundamental scheme of the language; that she understood as he made her name every object 
in sight and repeated the words rapidly with perfect inflection. He had memorized the 
names of every plant in the room-ferns, banana trees, orchids, begonias, daisies, 
bougainvillea. It had thrilled her to hear his rapid inventories repeated moments later 
without a mistake: fountain, table, plates, china plates, silver, floor tiles, Rita!
  
  Now he was working his way through purely English texts, finishing off the Punch as he 
had already finished two issues of the Strand magazine, the Harper's Weekly from America, 
and every issue of The Times in the house,
  
  He scanned the pages with great care, fingers touching words, pictures, even designs as 
if he were a blind man somehow miraculously able to see through touch. With the same 
loving attention, he fingered the Wedgwood plates and the Waterford crystal.
  
  He looked up excitedly now as Rita brought him a glass of beer.
  
  "I've got nothing else, miss,"  she said with a little shrug, standing well back of him 
as she held out the glass.
  
  He snatched it from her and drained it immediately. He gave her a nod and smile.
  
  "Egyptians love beer, Rita. Get some more, hurry."
  
  Keeping Rita on the go was keeping Rita from losing her mind.
  
  Julie made her way through the ferns and potted trees and took her place at the table 
opposite Ramses. He glanced up, then pointed to a picture of" the Gibson girl"  before 
him. Julie nodded.
  
  "American,"  she said.
  
  "United States,"  he responded.
  
  She was stunned." Yes,"  she said.
  
  He quickly devoured a sausage whole, and folded another thin slice of bread and ate it 
in two bites, as he turned the pages with his left hand, scanning a picture of a man on a 
bicycle. This made him laugh out loud.
  
  "Bicycle,"  she said.
  
  "Yes!"  he said, precisely as she had said it a moment ago. Then he said something 
softly in Latin.
  
  Oh, she had to take him out, show him everything.
  
  The telephone sounded suddenly, a shrill ring from Father's desk in the Egyptian room. 
He was immediately on his feet. He followed her into the Egyptian room and stood quite 
close, looking down at her as she answered it.
  
  "Hello? Yes, this is Julie Stratford."  She covered the mouthpiece." Telephone,"  she 
whispered." Talking machine."  She held the receiver so that he might hear the voice on 
the other end. Henry's club calling; they would come round for Henry's trunk. Could she 
have it ready?
  
  "It's ready now. You'll need two men, I should think. Please do hurry."
  
  She clasped the wire and held it up to Ramses' attention." The voice goes through the 
wire,"  she whispered. She hung up the telephone, looked about. Taking his hand, she led 
him back into the conservatory, and pointed to the wires outside, which ran from the 
house to the telegraph pole at the far end of the garden.
  
  He studied all this with keen concentration. Then she took an empty glass from the 
table and approached the wall that divided the far end of the conservatory from the 
kitchen. She placed the mouth of the glass against the wall and pressed her ear to the 
bottom of the glass, and listened. It amplified the sound of Rita moving about. Then she 
invited him to do it. He heard the amplification just as she had heard it.
  
  He stared at her, thoughtful, dazzled, excited.
  
  "The wire of the telephone conducts sound,"  she said." It's a mechanical invention."  
That's what she must do, show him what machines were! Explain the great leap forward 
which machines had accomplished; the complete transformation of thinking about how to do 
things.
  
  "Conducts sound,"  he repeatedly thoughtfully. He moved to the table and lifted the 
magazine he'd been reading. He made a gesture as if to say Read aloud. Quickly, she read 
a paragraph of commentary on home affairs. Too dense with abstractions, but he was merely 
listening to the syllables, wasn't he? Impatiently he took the magazine from her, and 
then answered:
  
  "Thank you."
  
  "Very good,"  she said." You're learning with amazing speed."
  
  Then, he made a curious little series of gestures. He touched his temple, his forehead, 
as though making some reference to his brain. And then he touched his hair, and his skin. 
What was he trying to tell her? That the organ of thought responded as quickly as his 
</pre>
<!--N=3600 M=3800 pt=-->
hair and body had responded to the sunlight?
  
  He turned to the table." Sausages,"  he said." Beef. Roast chicken. Beer. Milk. Wine. 
Fork. Knife. Napkin. Beer. More beer."
  
  "Yes,"  she said." Rita, bring him some more beer. He likes beer."  She lifted a fold 
of her peignoir." Lace,"  she said." Silk."
  
  He made a little buzzing noise.
  
  "Bees!"  she said." Exactly. Oh, you are so wonderfully clever."
  
  He laughed. "Say again,"  he said.
  
  "Wonderfully clever."  Now she pointed to her head, tap, tap, tap. The brain, thought.
  
  He nodded. He glanced down at the silver-handled paring knife on the table. He picked 
it up, as if asking her permission, and slipped it into his pocket. Then beckoning for 
her to follow, he went into the Egyptian room. He approached an old dim map of the world 
behind a dusty glass in a heavy frame and he pointed carefully to England.
  
  "Yes, England. Britannia,"  she said. She pointed to America." The United States,"  she 
said. Then she identified continents, oceans. Finally she identified Egypt, and the Nile 
River, a tiny line on this small map. "Ramses, King of Egypt,"  she said. She pointed to 
him.
  
  He nodded. But he wanted to know something else. Very carefully he articulated the 
question:
  
  "Twentieth century? What means anno Domini?"
  
  She was speechless, looking at him. He had slept through the birth of Christ! Of course 
he had no way to grasp how long that sleep had lasted. That he was a pure pagan did not 
disturb her so much as it fascinated her. But she feared the shock she would give him now 
when she answered his question.
  
  Roman numerals, where was that book? She took down Plutarch's Lives from her father's 
shelves and found the date of publication in Roman numerals, only three years before, 
perfect.
  
  Taking a sheet of notepaper from her father's desk, and dipping his pen, she hastily 
wrote out the correct date. But how to make it known to him the beginning of the system?
  
  Cleopatra was close enough, but she feared to use Cleopatra's name, for all the obvious 
reasons. Then the clearest example came to her.
  
  She wrote out in hand, printed letters the name Octavius Caesar. He nodded. She made a 
Roman numeral one beneath it. Then she drew a long horizontal line, moving to the very 
right edge of the page, and she wrote her own name Julie, and the full date in Roman 
numerals. And after that the Latin word: annum.
  
  He blanched. He looked at the paper for a long time, and then the colour appeared to 
dance in his cheeks. There was no doubt he understood her. His expression became grave, 
then curiously philosophical. He seemed to be pondering rather than absorbing a shock. 
She wrote the word century, and then the Roman numeral for one hundred, and the word 
annus. He nodded a little impatiently, yes, yes, he understood.
  
  Then he folded his arms and walked slowly around the room. She could not guess what he 
was thinking.
  
  "A long time,"  she whispered." Tempus ... tempus fugit!"  She was embarrassed 
suddenly. Time flies? But it was all the Latin she could think of. He was smiling at her. 
Was it a clich6 two thousand years ago?
  
  He approached the desk, and leaning over her gently, he took the pen and carefully drew 
the Egyptian cartouche which spelled his name in hieroglyphs, Ramses the Great. Then he 
too drew a horizontal line stretching across the page almost to the edge, where he wrote 
Cleopatra. In the very middle of that line he wrote the Roman numeral M meaning one 
thousand years; and then the arabic numbers for it which she had only taught him an hour 
ago.
  
  He gave her a moment to read this. And then he wrote beneath his cartouche the arabic 
numerals 3000.
  
  "Ramses is three thousand years old,"  she said, pointing to him, "and Ramses knows it."
  
  He nodded again, and smiled. What was his expression? Sad, resigned, merely thoughtful? 
There was a great dark flicker of pain in his eyes. The smile did not break, but she saw 
it, and she saw a subtle puckering of the lids beneath his eyes as he pondered this 
himself, and apparently moved back from it emotionally. He looked about the room now as 
if he were seeing it for the first time. He looked at the ceiling, and then at the floor, 
and then directly at the bust of Cleopatra. His eyes were as wide as before, his smile as 
soft and agreeable, but the something was gone from his face. The vigour. It had 
completely vanished.
  
  When he looked at her again, there was a thin glaze of tears in his eyes. She couldn't 
bear it. She reached out and clasped his left hand. His fingers curled around hers, 
squeezing them tenderly. "Very many years, Julie,"  he said. "Very many years. The world 
unseen by me. Do I speak clearly?"
  
  "Oh, yes, indeed you do,"  she said.
  
  He studied her, whispering slowly, and almost reverently," Very many many years, 
Julie."  And then he smiled. And his smile became broader. And then his shoulders began 
to shake. And she realized he was laughing." Two thousand years, Julie."  He laughed 
outright. And the look of wild excitement returned, the look of heightened vitality. Only 
slowly did his eyes turn to the bust of Cleopatra. He stared at it for a long moment, and 
then he looked at Julie again, and the curiosity and optimism had returned. For that was 
it, a great vigorous optimism.
  
  She wanted to kiss him. In fact, the urge was so strong it amazed her. It wasn't merely 
the beauty of his face, it was the deep resonant quality of his voice, and the look of 
pain in his eyes, and the way he smiled at her now, and reached up and touched her hair 
ever so respectfully. Chills ran down her back.
  
  "Ramses is immortal,"  she said. "Ramses has vitam eternom."
  
  A small polite laugh of acknowledgment came from him. A nod." Yes,"  he said." Vitam 
eternam."
  
  Was she feeling love for this man? Or merely an infatuation so overpowering it swept 
every other consideration out of her mind? Even Henry and what he had done, that he had 
killed her father?
  
  Henry must wait. Justice had to wait. Unless she was to kill Henry herself, and that 
was quite unthinkable. But this, this was everything now, this man sitting before her. 
Her hatred for Henry would have its day. Henry was heading towards God's justice more 
surely than any human being she had ever known.
  
  And she stood gazing into these magnificent blue eyes, feeling the warmth of the hand 
that held hers, swept into this man's future by a miracle.
  
  There was a violent noise from the street. It could only have been a motor car. He 
heard it, there was no doubt of that; but only very slowly did he respond, looking away 
from her and towards the front windows. Then placing his arm very lightly on her 
shoulder, he guided her with him to the front of the house.
  
  What a gentleman he was; what a strange courtly being. He peered out through the lace 
at what must surely have been a shocking spectacle-an Italian roadster idling, with two 
young men in the front seat, both of them waving at a young lady who was walking on the 
pavement opposite. The driver sounded the horn, a nasty loud thing, and it gave Ramses a 
bad start. But he continued to look at the rumbling, backfiring open car, not with fear, 
but with curiosity. As the thing began to move, and then lurched down the street, his 
curiosity gave way to utter astonishment.
  
  "Motorcar,"  she said." It runs on gasoline. It is a machine. An invention."
  
  "Motor car!"  He moved immediately to the front door, and opened it.
  
  "No, you must come, get properly dressed,"  she said." Vestments, proper vestments."
  
  "Shirt, tie, trousers, shoes,"  he said.
  
  She laughed. He made a gesture for her to wait. She watched as he went into the 
Egyptian room, and studied the long line of alabaster jars. He selected one, and turned 
it to reveal a small hidden compartment at the base, which was now opened. Out of this he 
took several gold coins. He brought these to her.
  
  "Vestments,"  he said.
  
  She studied them only a second or two in the light from the windows. More of the 
flawless Cleopatra coins.
  
  "Oh, no,"  she said," these are worth far too much for us to spend them. Put them away. 
You are my guest here. I shall take care of everything."
  
  She took him by the hand and led him up the stairs. Once again, he studied everything 
about him. Only this time he paused to examine the porcelain whatnots on the shelf. He 
stopped beneath her father's portrait in the upstairs hall.
  
  "Lawrence,"  he said. Then, looking intently at her:" Henry? Where is Henry?"
  
  "I shall take care of Henry,"  she said." Time and the courts of law ... judicium ... 
justice shall take care of Henry."
  
  He indicated he was not satisfied with this answer. He drew the paring knife out of his 
pocket and ran his thumb along the blade." I, Ramses, shall kill Henry."
  
  "No!"  Her hands flew to her lips." No. Justice. Law!"  she said." We are a people of 
courts and laws. When the time comes ..."  But she broke down. She could say no more. The 
tears welled in her eyes. It was hitting her again. Henry robbed Father of this triumph, 
this mystery, this very moment." No,"  she said as he tried to steady her. He put his 
hand on his chest." I, Ramses, am justice,"  he said." King, court, justice."
  
  She sniffled, trying to stop her tears. She wiped at her lips with the back of her hand.
  
  "You're a very fast learner of words,"  she said," but you cannot kill Henry. I cannot 
live if you kill Henry."
  
  Suddenly he took her face in his hands, and forcing her to him, he kissed her. It was 
brief, yet absolutely devastating. She reeled, and turned her back on him.
  
  Quickly, she walked to the end of the hall and opened her father's door. She did not 
turn around and look at him again as she took the clothing out of the wardrobe. She laid 
out the shirt, the trousers, the belt. Socks, shoes. She pointed to the pictures on the 
wall, all the old photographs her father had treasured of himself and Elliott and 
Randolph and other cronies, from Oxford days to the present. The coat, she'd forgotten 
the coat. She dragged that out too and laid it down on the bed.
  
  Then and only then did she look up. He stood in the door, watching her. The robe was 
open now to his waist; surely there was something profoundly primitive in the way he 
stood there, arms folded, feet apart, yet it seemed at the moment the very height of 
decorous sophistication.
  
  He moved into the room now, surveying it with the same curiosity with which he 
approached everything else. He saw the photographs of her father, along with Randolph and 
Elliott at Oxford. He turned to look at the clothing laid out on the bed. Clearly he was 
comparing the clothes with that of the men in the pictures.
  
  "Yes,"  she said," you should dress like that."
</pre>
<!--N=3800 M=4000 pt=-->
  
  His eyes darted to the Archaeology Journal on the dressing table. He picked it up and 
leafed through it, stopping at a full engraving of the great pyramid at Giza which 
contained also the Mena Hotel. What in the world was he thinking? He closed it.
  
  "RRRRR ... kay ... ology,"  he said. With the utter guile-lessness of a child, he 
smiled.
  
  His eyes positively glittered as he looked at her. There was a scant bit of hair on his 
massive chest. She must get out of here now.
  
  "You dress, Ramses. Like the pictures. I'll help you later if you make any mistakes."
  
  "Very well, Julie Stratford,"  he said in that paralyzingly perfect British accent." I 
dress alone. I have done this before."
  
  Of course. Slaves. He had always had them, hadn't he? Probably by the dozens. Well, 
there was nothing to be done about it. She could not start removing that robe with her 
own hands. Her cheeks were burning. She could feel it. She hurried out, and quietly shut 
the door.
  
  HENRY WAS now as drunk as he had ever been in his life. He had finished the bottle of 
Scotch which he had taken without permission from Elliott, and the r'" ' brandy was going 
down like water. But it did not help.
  
  He was smoking one Egyptian cheroot after another, filling Daisy's flat with the 
pungent fragrance he had grown accustomed to in Cairo, And all it did was make him think 
of Malenka, and how he wished he was with Malenka, though he also wished he had never set 
foot in Egypt, that he had never entered that chamber in the side of the mountain where 
his uncle Lawrence had been poring over a stack of ancient scrolls.
  
  That thing had been alive! That thing had seen him slip the poison into Lawrence's cup. 
No mistaking now the memory of those eyes open under the bandages; no mistaking that the 
thing had come out of its coffin in Julie's house and clamped its filthy hand on his neck.
  
  No one understood the danger he was in. No one understood because no one knew the 
thing's motive! Never mind the reason for its filthy existence! The thing knew what he 
had done. And that Reginald Ramsey-though he could not entirely associate the man with 
the filthy creature that had tried to strangle him- he knew intellectually they were one 
and the same. Would the man disappear into the rotted linen bandages again when it came 
to get him?
  
  God! He shuddered all over. He heard Daisy say something,
  
  and when he looked up he saw her standing by the mantel shelf, posing, as it were, in 
her corset and silk stockings, her breasts pouring over the lace cups of the corset, her 
blond ringlets tumbling onto her shoulders. Ought to be quite something to look at, to 
touch. It meant nothing.
  
  "And you're telling me a bloomin' mummy came right out of the mummy case and put its 
bloomin' hands around your throat! And you're telling me it's got on a bloomin' robe and 
slippers and is walking around the bloomin1 house!"
  
  Go away, Daisy. In his mind's eye, he saw himself taking the knife out of his pocket, 
the knife with which he'd killed Sharpies, and he saw himself stabbing Daisy with it, in 
the throat.
  
  The bell sounded. She wasn't going to the door in that getup, was she? Perfect idiot. 
What the devil did he care! The door. He shrank back in the chair, fumbling in his pocket 
for the knife.
  
  Flowers. She came back with a big bouquet of flowers, babbling about an admirer. He 
slumped back in the chair. What was she doing? Staring at him like that?
  
  "I need a pistol,"  he said without looking at her." Surely one of your guttersnipe 
friends can get me a pistol?"
  
  "I'll have nothing to do with it!"
  
  "You'll do as I tell you!"  he said. If only she knew; he had killed two men. He had 
almost killed a woman. Almost. And the thing was, he would have liked to hurt Daisy, he 
would have liked to see the expression on her face when the knife went into her throat." 
Now get on the telephone,"  he said to her." Call that worthless brother of yours. I need 
a pistol small enough to keep under my coat."
  
  Was she going to cry?
  
  "Do as I tell you,"  he said." Now, I'm going to my club to get some of my clothing. If 
anyone calls here for me, you're to say I'm staying there, do you hear?"
  
  "You're in no condition to go anywhere!"
  
  He struggled out of the chair, and towards the door. The floor was tilting. He steadied 
himself on the frame. For a long moment he rested his forehead against it. He could not 
remember a time when he wasn't tired, desperate, angry. He looked back at her.
  
  "If I come back here and you haven't done what I said ..."
  
  "I'll do it,"  she whimpered. She threw the flowers down and folded her arms and turned 
her back to him and bowed her head.
  
  Some instinct, upon which he had always relied without question, told him to temper it 
now. This was the moment to appear gentle, almost affectionate, though the very sight of 
her bent back infuriated him, though her sobs made him grit his teeth.
  
  "You like this flat well enough, don't you, darling?"  he said." And you like the 
champagne you're drinking and the furs you're wearing. And you'll like the motor car well 
enough as soon as I get it. But what I need right now is a little loyalty and time."
  
  He saw her nod. She was turning around to come to him. He went down the hall and out 
the door.
  
  Henry's trunk had just been taken away.
  
  Julie stood at the window watching the awkward, noisy German motorcar move out of sight 
down the street. In her heart of hearts, she did not know what to do about Henry.
  
  To call the authorities at this point was unthinkable. Not only was there no 
explainable witness to what Henry had done, but the thought of wounding Randolph was more 
than Julie could bear.
  
  Randolph was innocent. She knew it instinctively. And she knew as well that knowledge 
of Henry's guilt would be the final blow for Randolph. She would lose her uncle as she 
had lost her father. And though her uncle had never been the man her father was, he was 
her flesh and blood, and she loved him very much.
  
  Dimly, she remembered Henry's words to her this morning." We are all you have."  She 
found herself paralysed with hurt, on the verge of tears again.
  
  A footstep on the stairs interrupted her. She turned. And she saw the one person in the 
world who could sweep away this burden, even for a little while.
  
  She had dressed very carefully for this moment. Telling herself that everything she did 
was an education for her honoured guest, she had chosen the most exquisite suit she 
owned; her best black-brimmed hat with silk flowers; and gloves, of course; all this to 
acquaint him with the fashions of the time.
  
  But she had also wanted to look beautiful for him, And she knew that the burgundy wool 
flattered her. Her heart was knocking again as she saw him come down the stairs.
  
  In fact, her breath left her altogether as he stepped into the front hall and looked 
down at her, coming perilously close to her as if he meant to kiss her.
  
  She did not step back.
  
  He had done well with her father's wardrobe. Dark socks and shoes perfect. Shirt 
buttoned properly. Silk tie knotted rather eccentrically but quite beautiful. Even the 
cuff links were properly done. In fact, he was disturbingly handsome in the silk 
waistcoat, sleek black frock coat and gray wool flannel trousers he wore. Only the 
cashmere scarf was all wrong. He had tied it as a sash about his waist as an 
old-fashioned soldier might have done.
  
  "May I?"  she asked as she removed it, and then slipped it over his head and around his 
neck, inside the coat. She smoothed it carefully, trying not to be overpowered by him, by 
his blue eyes looking down at her intently, and that strange philosophical smile.
  
  Now came the big adventure. They were going out together. She was going to show Ramses 
the Great the twentieth century. This was the most exciting moment she had ever known.
  
  He caught her hand as she opened the door. He drew her to him swiftly. Again, it was as 
if he were going to kiss her, and her excitement turned suddenly to fear.
  
  He felt it; he stopped, holding her hand a little more loosely, a little more gently. 
And then he bent and kissed it reverently. And gave her a very mischievous little smile.
  
  How in God's name was she going to resist him!
  
  "Come, let's go. The world waits!"  she said. There was a hansom coming along right 
now. She waved quickly, and men gave him a little tug.
  
  He had stopped. He was looking up and down the broad expanse of street at all the many 
houses with their iron railings and massive doors, and lace curtains; and the chimney 
pots smoking above.
  
  How vital, how passionate, how full of sheer lust for it all he appeared. With a spring 
in his step he came after her, and climbed into the back of the little cab.
  
  It occurred to her that never in her life had she seen even a smattering of that 
passion in her beloved Alex. It made her sad for an instant, not because she was really 
thinking about Alex, but because she had the first inkling of how her old world was 
fading, of how things were never, never going to be the same.
  
  Samir's office at the British Museum was small, packed with books, and overcrowded 
perhaps by the large desk and the two leather chairs. But Elliott found it comfortable 
enough. And thank God the little coal fire kept it very warm.
  
  "Well, I'm not sure that I can tell you that much,"  Samir said." Lawrence had only 
translated a fragment: the Pharaoh claimed to be immortal. He had roamed the world, it 
seems, since the end of his official reign. He'd lived among peoples the ancient 
Egyptians didn't know existed. He claimed to have been in Athens for two centuries, to 
have lived in Rome. Finally he retreated to a tomb from which only the royal families of 
Egypt could call him. Certain priests knew the secret. It had become a legend by 
Cleopatra's time. But apparently the young Queen believed."
  
  "And she did whatever was necessary to awaken him."
  
  "So he wrote. And he fell deeply in love with her, approving her liaison with Caesar in 
the name of necessity and experience, but not with Mark Antony. This embittered him, 
Lawrence said. There was nothing there to contradict our history. He condemned Antony and 
Cleopatra for their excesses and their bad judgment just as we have done."
  
  "Did Lawrence believe the story? Did he have any theory-"
  
  "Lawrence was deliriously happy with the mystery. Such an incomprehensible combination 
of artifacts. Lawrence would have spent the rest of his life trying to solve it. I 'm not 
sure what he really believed."
  
  Elliott reflected. '"The mummy, Samir. You examined it. You were with Lawrence when he 
first opened the case."
  
</pre>
<!--N=4000 M=4200 pt=-->
  "Yes."
  
  "Did you detect anything out of the ordinary?"
  
  "My Lord, you've seen a thousand such mummies. The baffling part was the writing, the 
command of languages, and, of course, the mummy case."
  
  "Well, I have a little story to tell you,"  Elliott said." According to our mutual 
friend and acquaintance Henry Stratford, the mummy is quite alive. This very morning he 
stepped out of his coffin, crossed Lawrence's library and tried to strangle Henry in the 
drawing room. Henry was lucky to escape with his life."
  
  For a moment Samir didn't respond at all. It was as if he hadn't heard. Then softly," 
You are joking with me, Lord Rutherford?"
  
  Elliott laughed." No. I am not joking, Mr. Ibrahaim. And I am willing to wager that 
Henry Stratford wasn't joking when he told me the story this very morning. In fact, I'm 
certain he wasn't joking. He was badly shaken; damn near hysterical. But joking, no."
  
  Silence. This is what it means to be speechless, Elliott thought as he looked at Samir.
  
  "You don't have a cigarette, do you, Samir?"  he asked.
  
  Without taking his eyes off Elliott, Samir opened a small delicately carved ivory box. 
Egyptian cigarettes. Perfectly delicious. Samir lifted the gold lighter and handed it to 
Elliott.
  
  "Thank you. I might add ... for I suppose you are wondering ... this mummy did not hurt 
Julie at all. And has become in fact her honoured guest-' *
  
  "Lord Rutherford ..."
  
  "I'm perfectly serious. My son, Alex, went there immediately. As a matter of fact, 
there were police on the scene even before that. It seems an Egyptologist is staying at 
the Stratford house, a Mr. Reginald Ramsey, and that Julie is being quite emphatic that 
she must take her guest about London. She has no time to discuss Henry's inane 
hallucinations. And Henry, who had seen this Egyptologist, maintains that he is in fact 
the mummy, walking about in Lawrence's clothes."
  
  Elliott lit the cigarette and inhaled deeply.
  
  "You're going to hear about all this soon enough from others,"  he said casually." The 
reporters were there in force. 'Mummy Walks in Mayfair.'" He shrugged.
  
  Samir was clearly more stunned than amused. He appeared positively distressed.
  
  "You'll forgive me,"  he said," but I don't have a very high opinion of Lawrence's 
nephew, Henry."
  
  "Of course not, how could you?"
  
  "This Egyptologist. You said that his name was Reginald Ramsey. I have never heard of 
an Egyptologist by that name."
  
  "Of course you haven't. And you know them all, don't you? From Cairo to London or 
Manchester, or Berlin or New York."
  
  "I think I do."
  
  "So none of this makes sense."
  
  "Not a particle of sense."
  
  "Unless, of course, we entertain for a moment the notion that this mummy is immortal. 
Then everything falls into place."
  
  "But you don't believe-" Samir stopped. The distress was plain again. In fact, it had 
worsened.
  
  "Yes?"
  
  "This is preposterous,"  Samir murmured." Lawrence died of a heart attack in that tomb. 
This thing did not kill him! This is madness."
  
  "Was there the slightest evidence of violence?"
  
  "Evidence? No. But there was a feeling about that tomb, and the curses written all over 
the mummy case. The thing wanted to be left in peace. The sun. It did not want the sun. 
But it was asking to be left in peace. That is what the dead always want."
  
  "Do they?"  Elliott asked." If I were dead, I'm not sure I would want to be at peace. 
If it meant being purely dead, that is."
  
  "We're allowing our imaginations to run away with us, Lord Rutherford. Besides ... 
Henry Stratford was in the tomb when Lawrence died!"
  
  "Hmmmmm. That's true. And Henry didn't see our ragged, rotted friend moving about until 
this morning."
  
  "I do not like this story. I do not like it at all. I do not like that Miss Stratford 
is alone in the house with these relics."
  
  "Perhaps the museum should look into it further,"  Elliott said." Check up on the 
mummy. After all, the thing is extremely valuable."
  
  Samir didn't answer. He had sunk into that speechless state again, staring at the desk 
before him.
  
  Elliott took hold of his cane firmly and rose to his feet. He was getting quite good at 
hiding the inevitable discomfort of that simple operation. But he had to stand quite 
still for a few moments to allow the pain to stop. He crushed out his cigarette slowly.
  
  "Thank you, Samir. It's been a most interesting conversation."
  
