Copyright © 1992 by Janet Kagan, All rights reservedcopynotes.  First appeared in Asimov's Science Fiction, December 1992.  For the personal use of those who have purchased the ESF 1993 Award anthology only.



THE NUTCRACKER COUP



Janet Kagan



Marianne Tedesco had "The Nutcracker Suite" turned up full blast for inspiration, and as she whittled she now and then raised her knife to conduct Tchaikovsky.  That was what she was doing when one of the locals poked his delicate snout around the corner of the door to her office.  She nudged the sound down to a whisper in the background and beckoned him in.

It was Tatep, of course.  After almost a year on Rejoicing (that was the literal translation of the world's name), she still had a bit of trouble recognizing the Rejoicers by snout alone, but the three white quills in Tatep's ruff had made him the first real "individual" to her.  Helluva thing for a junior diplomat not to be able to tell one local from another—but there it was.  Marianne was desperately trying to learn the snout shapes that distinguished the Rejoicers to each other.

"Good morning, Tatep.  What can I do for you?"

"Share?" said Tatep.

"Of course.  Shall I turn the music off?"  Marianne knew that The Nutcracker Suite was as alien to him as the rattling and scraping of his music was to her.  She was beginning to like pieces here and there of the Rejoicer style but she didn't know if Tatep felt the same way about Tchaikovsky.

"Please, leave it on," he said.  "You've played it every day this week—am I right?  And now I find you waving your knife to the beat.  Will you share the reason?"

She had played it every day this week, she realized.  "I'll try to explain.  It's a little silly, really, and it shouldn't be taken as characteristic of human.  Just as characteristic of Marianne."

"Understood."  He climbed the stepstool she'd cobbled together her first month on Rejoicing and settled himself on his haunches comfortably to listen.  At rest, the wicked quills adorning his ruff and tail seemed just that: adornments.  By local standards, Tatep was a handsome male.

He was also a quadruped and human chairs weren't the least bit of use to him.  The stepstool let him lounge on its broad upper platform or sit upright on the step below that—in either case, it put a Rejoicer eye to eye with Marianne.  This had been so successful an innovation in the embassy that they had hired a local artisan to make several for each office.  Chornian's stepstools were a more elaborate affair, but Chornian himself had refused to make one to replace "the very first."  A fine sense of tradition, these Rejoicers.

That was, of course, the best way to explain the Tchaikovsky.  "Have you noticed, Tatep, that the further away from home you go, the more important it becomes to keep traditions?"

"Yes," he said.  He drew a small piece of sweetwood from his pouch and seemed to consider it thoughtfully.  "Ah!  I hadn't thought how very strongly you must need tradition!  You're very far from home indeed.  Some thirty light years, is it not?"  He bit into the wood, shaving a delicate curl from it with one corner of his razor sharp front tooth.  The curl he swallowed, then he said, "Please, go on."

The control he had always fascinated Marianne—she would have preferred to watch him carve, but she spoke instead.  "My family tradition is to celebrate a holiday called Christmas."

He swallowed another shaving and repeated, "Christmas."

"For some humans Christmas is a religious holiday.  For my family, it was more of...a turning of the seasons.  Now, Esperanza and I couldn't agree on a date—her homeworld's calendar runs differently than mine—but we both agree on a need to celebrate Christmas once a year.  So, since it's a solstice festival, I asked Muhammed what was the shortest day of the year on Rejoicing.  He says that's Tamemb Nap Ohd."

Tatep bristled his ruff forward, confirming Muhammed's date.

"So I have decided to celebrate Christmas Eve on Tamemb Nap Ohd and to celebrate Christmas Day on Tememb Nap Chorr."

"Christmas is a revival, then?  An awakening?"

"Yes, something like that.  A renewal.  A promise of spring to come."

"Yes, we have an Awakening on Tememb Nap Chorr as well."

Marianne nodded.  "Many peoples do.  Anyhow, I mentioned that I wanted to celebrate and a number of other people at the Embassy decided it was a good idea.  So, we're trying to put together something that resembles a Christmas celebration—mostly from local materials."

She gestured toward the player.  "That piece of music is generally associated with Christmas.  I've been playing it because it—gives me an anticipation of the Awakening to come."

Tatep was doing fine finishing work now, and Marianne had to stop to watch.  The bit of sweetwood was turning into a pair of tommets—the Embassy staff had dubbed them "notrabbits" for their sexual proclivities—engaged in their mating dance.  Tatep rattled his spines, amused, and passed the carving into her hands.  He waited quietly while she turned it this way and that, admiring the exquisite workmanship.

"You don't get the joke," he said, at last.

"No, Tatep.  I'm afraid I don't.  Can you share it?"

"Look closely at their teeth."

Marianne did, and got the joke.  The creatures were tommets, yes, but the teeth they had were not tommet teeth.  They were the same sort of teeth that Tatep had used to carve them.  Apparently, "fucking like tommets" was a Rejoicer joke.

"It's a gift for Hapet and Achinto.  They had six children!  We're all pleased and amazed for them."

Four to a brood was the usual, but birthings were few and far between.  A couple that had more than two birthings in a lifetime was considered unusually lucky.

"Congratulate them for me, if you think it appropriate," Marianne said.  "Would it be proper for the embassy to send a gift?"

"Proper and most welcome.  Hapet and Achinto will need help feeding that many."

"Would you help me choose?  Something to make children grow healthy and strong, and something as well to delight their senses."

"I'd be glad to.  Shall we go to the market or the wood?"

"Let's go chop our own, Tatep.  I've been sitting behind this desk too damn long.  I could use the exercise."

As Marianne rose, Tatep put his finished carving into his pouch and climbed down.  "You will share more about Christmas with me while we work?  You can talk and chop at the same time."

Marianne grinned.  "I'll do better than that.  You can help me choose something that we can use for a Christmas tree, as well.  If it's something that is also edible when it has seasoned for a few weeks' time, that would be all the more to the spirit of the festival."

