###

"Dear Nick," Marianne wrote in another letter some months later.  "You're not going to approve of this.  I find I haven't been ethnologically correct—much less diplomatic.  I'd only meant to share my Christmas with Tatep and Chornian and, for that matter, whoever wanted to join in the festivities.  To hear Clarence tell it, I've sent Rejoicing to hell in a handbasket.

"You see, it does Halemtat no good to clip quills these days.  There are some seventy-five Rejoicers walking around town clipped and beaded—as gaudy and as shameless as you please.  I even saw one newly male (teenager) with beads on the ends of his unclipped spines!

"Killim says thanks for the dyes, by the way.  They're just what she had in mind.  She'd so busy, she's taken on two apprentices to help her.  She makes 'Christmas ornaments' and half the art galleries in the known universe are after her for more and more.  The apprentices make glass beads.  One of them—one of Chornian's kids, by the way—hit upon the bright idea of making simple sets of beads that can be stuck on the ends of quills cold.  Saves time and trouble over the hot glass method.

"What's more—

"Well, yesterday I stopped by to say 'hi' to Killim, when who should turn up but Koppen—you remember him? he's one of Halemtat's advisors?  You'll never guess what he wanted: a set of quill tipping beads.

"No, he hadn't had his quills clipped.  Nor was he buying them for a friend.  He was planning, he told Killim, to tell Halemtat a thing or two—I missed the details because he went too fast—and he expected he'd be clipped for it, so he was planning ahead.  Very expensive blue beads for him, if you please, Killim!

"I find myself unprofessionally pleased.  There's a thing or two Halemtat ought to be told....

"Meanwhile, Chornian has gone into the business of making nutcrackers.  —All right, so sue me, I showed him how to make the actual cracker work.  It was that or risk his taking Tatep's present apart to find out for himself.

"I'm sending holos—including a holo of the one I made—because you've got to see the transformation Chornian's worked on mine.  The difference between a human-carved nutcracker and a Rejoicer-carved nutcracker is as unmistakeable as the difference between Looking Up at Nick and...well, looking up at Nick.

"I still miss you, even if you do think fireworks are appropriate at Christmas.

"See you soon—if Clarence doesn't boil me in my own pudding and bury me with a stake of holly through my heart."

Marianne sat with her light pen poised over the screen for a long moment, then she added, "Love, Marianne," and saved it to the next out-going Dirt-bound mail.

