###

Rejoicing

Midsummer's Eve

(Rejoicer reckoning)

Dear Nick—

This time it's not my fault.  This time it's Esperanza's doing.  Esperanza decided, for her contribution to the our round of holidays, to celebrate Martin Luther King Day.  (All right—if I'd known about Martin Luther King I'd probably have suggested a celebration myself—but I didn't.  Look him up; you'll like him.)  And she invited a handful of the Rejoicers to attend as well.

Now, the final part of the celebration is that each person in turn "has a dream."  This is not like wishes, Nick.  This is more on the order of setting yourself a goal, even one that looks to all intents and purposes to be unattainable, but one you will strive to attain.  Even Clarence got so into the occasion that he had a dream that he would stop thinking of the Rejoicers as "Pincushions" so he could start thinking of them as Rejoicers.  Esperanza said later Clarence didn't quite get the point but for him she supposed that was a step in the right direction.

Well, after that, Tatep asked Esperanza, in his very polite fashion, if it would be proper for him to have a dream as well.  There was some consultation over the proper phrasing—Esperanza says her report will tell you all about that—and then Tatep rose and said, "I have a dream....  I have a dream that someday no-one will get his quills clipped for speaking the truth."

(You'll see it on the tape.  Everybody agreed that this was a good dream, indeed.)

After which, Esperanza had her dream "for human rights for all."

Following which, of course, we all took turns trying to explain the concept of "human rights" to a half-dozen Rejoicers.  Esperanza ended up translating five different constitutions for them—and an entire book of speeches by Martin Luther King.

Oh, god.  I just realized...maybe it is my fault.  I'd forgotten till just now.  Oh.  You judge, Nick.

About a week later Tatep and I were out gathering wood for some carving he plans to do—for Christmas, he says, but he wanted to get a good start on it—and he stopped gnawing long enough to ask me, "Marianne, what's 'human'?"

"How do you mean?"

"I think when Clarence says 'human,' he means something different than you do."

"That's entirely possible.  Humans use words pretty loosely at the best of times—there, I just did it myself."

"What do you mean when you say 'human'?"

"Sometimes I mean the species homo sapiens.  When I say, Humans use words pretty loosely, I do.  Rejoicers seem to be more particular about their speech, as a general rule."

"And when you say 'human rights,' what do you mean?"

"When I say 'human rights,' I mean Homo sapiens and Rejoicing sapiens.  I mean any sapiens, in that context.  I wouldn't guarantee that Clarence uses the word the same way in the same context."

"You think I'm human?"

"I know you're human.  We're friends, aren't we?  I couldn't be friends with—oh, a notrabbit—now, could I?"

He made that wonderful rattly sound he does when he's amused.  "No, I can't imagine it.  Then, if I'm human, I ought to have human rights."

"Yes," I said, "You bloody well ought to."

Maybe it is all my fault.  Esperanza will tell you the rest—she's had Rejoicers all over her house for the past two weeks—they're watching every scrap of film she's got on Martin Luther King.

I don't know how this will all end up, but I wish to hell you were here to watch.

Love, Marianne

