He was Natalie's father, only about forty or so, but he looked twice that age.
Pale.
Withered.
Hands shaking.
My heart broke watching him.
With all the horrible people in the world, it didn't seem fair that this guy should get a disease that was going to kill him young and ultimately keep him from becoming king.Although not technically her uncle--the Moroi used family terms very loosely, especially the royals--Victor was a close friend of Lissa's family and had gone out of his way to help her after her parents had died.
I liked him; he was the first person I was happy to see here.Kirova let them have a few more moments and then stiffly drew Lissa back to her seat.Time for the lecture.It was a good one--one of Kirova's best, which was saying something.
She was a master at them.
I swear that was the only reason she'd gone into school administration, because I had yet to see any evidence of her actually liking kids.
The rant covered the usual topics: responsibility reckless behavior, self-centeredness....Bleh.
I immediately found myself spacing out, alternatively pondering the logistics of escaping through the window in her office.But when the tirade shifted to me--well, that was when I tuned back in."You, Miss Hathaway, broke the most sacred promise among our kind: the promise of a guardian to protect a Moroi.
It is a great trust.
A trust that you violated by selfishly taking the princess away from here.
The Strigoi would love to finish off the Dragomirs; you nearly enabled them to do it.''"Rose didn't kidnap me." Lissa spoke before I could, her voice and face calm, despite her uneasy feelings.
"I wanted to go.
Don't blame her.''Ms.
Kirova tsked at us both and paced the office, hands folded behind her narrow back."Miss Dragomir, you could have been the one who orchestrated the entire plan for all I know, but it was still her responsibility to make sure you didn't carry it out.
If she'd done her duty, she would have notified someone.
If she'd done her duty, she would have kept you safe.''I snapped."I did do my duty!" I shouted, jumping up from my chair.
Dimitri and Alberta both flinched but left me alone since I wasn't trying to hit anyone.
Yet.
"I did keep her safe! I kept her safe when none of you"--I made a sweeping gesture around the room--"could do it.
I took her away to protect her.
I did what I had to do.
You certainly weren't going to.''Through the bond, I felt Lissa trying to send me calming messages, again urging me not to let anger get the best of me.
Too late.Kirova stared at me, her face blank.
"Miss Hathaway, forgive me if I fail to see the logic of how taking her out of a heavily guarded, magically secured environment is protecting her.
Unless there's something you aren't telling us?''I bit my lip."I see.
Well, then.
By my estimation, the only reason you left--aside from the novelty of it, no doubt--was to avoid the consequences of that horrible, destructive stunt you pulled just before your disappearance.''"No, that's not--''"And that only makes my decision that much easier.
As a Moroi, the princess must continue on here at the Academy for her own safety, but we have no such obligations to you.
You will be sent away as soon as possible.''My cockiness dried up.
"I...what?''Lissa stood up beside me.
"You can't do that! She's my guardian.''"She is no such thing, particularly since she isn't even a guardian at all.
She's still a novice.''"But my parents--''"I know what your parents wanted, God rest their souls, but things have changed.
Miss Hathaway is expendable.
She doesn't deserve to be a guardian, and she will leave.''I stared at Kirova, unable to believe what I was hearing.
"Where are you going to send me? To my mom in Nepal? Did she even know I was gone? Or maybe you'll send me off to my father?''Her eyes narrowed at the bite in that last word.
When I spoke again, my voice was so cold, I barely recognized it."Or maybe you're going to try to send me off to be a blood whore.
Try that, and we'll be gone by the end of the day.''"Miss Hathaway," she hissed, "you are out of line.''"They have a bond." Dimitri's low, accented voice broke the heavy tension, and we all turned toward him.
I think Kirova had forgotten he was there, but I hadn't.
His presence was way too powerful to ignore.
He still stood against the wall, looking like some sort of cowboy sentry in that ridiculous long coat of his.
He looked at me, not Lissa, his dark eyes staring straight through me.
"Rose knows what Vasilisa is feeling.
Don't you?''I at least had the satisfaction of seeing Kirova caught off guard as she glanced between us and Dimitri.
"No...that's impossible.
That hasn't happened in centuries.''"It's obvious," he said.
"I suspected as soon as I started watching them.''Neither Lissa nor I responded, and I averted my eyes from his."That is a gift," murmured Victor from his corner.
"A rare and wonderful thing.''"The best guardians always had that bond,'' added Dimitri.
"In the stories.''Kirova's outrage returned.
"Stories that are centuries old," she exclaimed.
"Surely you aren't suggesting we let her stay at the Academy after everything she's done?''He shrugged.
"She might be wild and disrespectful, but if she has potential--''"Wild and disrespectful?" I interrupted.
"Who the hell are you anyway? Outsourced help?''"Guardian Belikov is the princess's guardian now," said Kirova.
"Her sanctioned guardian.''"You got cheap foreign labor to protect Lissa?''That was pretty mean of me to say--particularly since most Moroi and their guardians were of Russian or Romanian descent--but the comment seemed cleverer at the time than it really was.
And it wasn't like I was one to talk.
I might have been raised in the U.S., but my parents were foreign-born.
My dhampir mother was Scottish--red-haired, with a ridiculous accent--and I'd been told my Moroi dad was Turkish.
That genetic combination had given me skin the same color as the inside of an almond, along with what I liked to think were semi-exotic desert-princess features: big dark eyes and hair so deep brown that it usually looked black.
I wouldn't have minded inheriting the red hair, but we take what we get.Kirova threw her hands up in exasperation and turned to him.
"You see? Completely undisciplined! All the psychic bonds and very raw potential in the world can't make up for that.
A guardian without discipline is worse than no guardian.''"So teach her discipline.
Classes just started.
Put her back in and get her training again.''"Impossible.
She'll still be hopelessly behind her peers.''"No, I won't," I argued.
No one listened to me."Then give her extra training sessions," he said.They continued on while the rest of us watched the exchange like it was a Ping-Pong game.
My pride was still hurt over the ease with which Dimitri had tricked us, but it occurred to me that he might very well keep me here with Lissa.
Better to stay at this hellhole than be without her.
Through our bond, I could feel her trickle of hope."Who's going to put in the extra time?" demanded Kirova.
"You?''Dimitri's argument came to an abrupt stop.
"Well, that's not what I--''Kirova crossed her arms with satisfaction.
"Yes.
That's what I thought.''Clearly at a loss, he frowned.
His eyes flicked toward Lissa and me, and I wondered what he saw.
Two pathetic girls, looking at him with big, pleading eyes? Or two runaways who'd broken out of a high-security school and swiped half of Lissa's inheritance?"Yes," he said finally.
"I can mentor Rose.
I'll give her extra sessions along with her normal ones.''"And then what?" retorted Kirova angrily.
"She goes unpunished?''"Find some other way to punish her," answered Dimitri.
"Guardian numbers have gone down too much to risk losing another.
A girl, in particular.''His unspoken words made me shudder, reminding me of my earlier statement about "blood whores." Few dhampir girls became guardians anymore.Victor suddenly spoke up from his corner.
"I'm inclined to agree with Guardian Belikov.
Sending Rose away would be a shame, a waste of talent.''Ms.
Kirova stared out her window.
It was completely black outside.
With the Academy's nocturnal schedule, morning and afternoon were relative terms.
That, and they kept the windows tinted to block out excess light.When she turned back around, Lissa met her eyes.
"Please, Ms.
Kirova.
Let Rose stay.''Oh, Lissa, I thought.
Be careful.
Using compulsion on another Moroi was dangerous--particularly in front of witnesses.
But Lissa was only using a tiny bit, and we needed all the help we could get.
Fortunately, no one seemed to realize what was happening.I don't even know if the compulsion made a difference, but finally, Kirova sighed."If Miss Hathaway stays, here's how it will be." She turned to me.
"Your continued enrollment at St.
Vladimir's is strictly probationary.
Step out of line once, and you're gone.
You will attend all classes and required trainings for novices your age.
You will also train with Guardian Belikov in every spare moment you have--before and after classes.
Other than that, you are banned from all social activities, except meals, and will stay in your dorm.
Fail to comply with any of this, and you will be sent...away.''I gave a harsh laugh.
"Banned from all social activities? Are you trying to keep us apart?" I nodded toward Lissa.
"Afraid we'll run away again?''"I'm taking precautions.
As I'm sure you recall, you were never properly punished for destroying school property.
You have a lot to make up for." Her thin lips tightened into a straight line.
"You are being offered a very generous deal.
I suggest you don't let your attitude endanger it.''I started to say it wasn't generous at all, but then I caught Dimitri's gaze.
It was hard to read.
He might have been telling me he believed in me.
He might have been telling me I was an idiot to keep fighting with Kirova.
I didn't know.Looking away from him for the second time during the meeting, I stared at the floor, conscious of Lissa beside me and her own encouragement burning in our bond.
At long last, I exhaled and glanced back up at the headmistress."Fine.
I accept."ThreeSENDING US STRAIGHT TO CLASS after our meeting seemed beyond cruel, but that's exactly what Kirova did.
Lissa was led away, and I watched her go, glad the bond would allow me to keep reading her emotional temperature.They actually sent me to one of the guidance counselors first.
He was an ancient Moroi guy, one I remembered from before I'd left.
I honestly couldn't believe he was still around.
The guy was so freaking old, he should have retired.
Or died.The visit took all of five minutes.
He said nothing about my return and asked a few questions about what classes I'd taken in Chicago and Portland.
He compared those against my old file and hastily scrawled out a new schedule.
I took it sullenly and headed out to my first class.1st Period      Advanced Guardian Combat Techniques2nd Period      Bodyguard Theory and Personal Protection 33rd Period      Weight Training and Conditioning4th Period      Senior Language Arts (Novices)--Lunch--5th Period      Animal Behavior and Physiology6th Period      Pre-calculus7th Period     Moroi Culture 48th Period     Slavic ArtUgh.
I'd forgotten how long the Academy's school day was.
Novices and Moroi took separate classes during the first half of the day, which meant I wouldn't see Lissa until after lunch--if we had any afternoon classes together.
Most of them were standard senior classes, so I felt my odds were pretty good.
Slavic art struck me as the kind of elective no one signed up for, so hopefully they'd stuck her in there too.Dimitri and Alberta escorted me to the guardians' gym for first period, neither one acknowledging my existence.
Walking behind them, I saw how Alberta wore her hair in a short, pixie cut that showed her promise mark and molnija marks.
A lot of female guardians did this.
It didn't matter so much for me now, since my neck had no tattoos yet, but I didn't want to ever cut my hair.She and Dimitri didn't say anything and walked along almost like it was any other day.
When we arrived, the reactions of my peers indicated it was anything but.
They were in the middle of setting up when we entered the gym, and just like in the commons, all eyes fell on me.
I couldn't decide if I felt like a rock star or a circus freak.All right, then.
If I was going to be stuck here for a while, I wasn't going to act afraid of them all anymore.
Lissa and I had once held this school's respect, and it was time to remind everyone of that.
Scanning the staring, openmouthed novices, I looked for a familiar face.
Most of them were guys.
One caught my eye, and I could barely hold back my grin."Hey Mason, wipe the drool off your face.
If you're going to think about me naked, do it on your own time.''A few snorts and snickers broke the awed silence, and Mason Ashford snapped out of his haze, giving me a lopsided smile.
With red hair that stuck up everywhere and a smattering of freckles, he was nice-looking, though not exactly hot.
He was also one of the funniest guys I knew.
We'd been good friends back in the day."This is my time, Hathaway.
I'm leading today's session.''"Oh yeah?" I retorted.
"Huh.
Well, I guess this is a good time to think about me naked, then.''"It's always a good a time to think about you naked," added someone nearby, breaking the tension further.
Eddie Castile.
Another friend of mine.Dimitri shook his head and walked off, muttering something in Russian that didn't sound complimentary.
But as for me...well, just like that, I was one of the novices again.
They were an easygoing bunch, less focused on pedigree and politics than the Moroi students.The class engulfed me, and I found myself laughing and seeing those I'd nearly forgotten about.
Everyone wanted to know where we'd been; apparently Lissa and I had become legends.
I couldn't tell them why we'd left, of course, so I offered up a lot of taunts and wouldn't-you-like-to-knows that served just as well.The happy reunion lasted a few more minutes before the adult guardian who oversaw the training came over and scolded Mason for neglecting his duties.
Still grinning, he barked out orders to everyone, explaining what exercises to start with.
Uneasily I realized I didn't know most of them."Come on, Hathaway," he said, taking my arm.
"You can be my partner.
Let's see what you've been doing all this time.''An hour later, he had his answer."Not practicing, huh?''"Ow," I groaned, momentarily incapable of normal speech.He extended a hand and helped me up from the mat he'd knocked me down on--about fifty times."I hate you," I told him, rubbing a spot on my thigh that was going to have a wicked bruise tomorrow."You'd hate me more if I held back.''"Yeah, that's true," I agreed, staggering along as the class put the equipment back."You actually did okay.''"What? I just had my ass handed to me.''"Well, of course you did.
It's been two years.
But hey, you're still walking.
That's something." He grinned mockingly."Did I mention I hate you?''He flashed me another smile, which quickly faded to something more serious.
"Don't take this the wrong way....I mean, you really are a scrapper, but there's no way you'll be able to take your trials in the spring--''"They're making me take extra practice sessions," I explained.
Not that it mattered.
I planned on getting Lissa and me out of here before these practices really became an issue.
"I'll be ready.''"Extra sessions with who?''"That tall guy.
Dimitri.''Mason stopped walking and stared at me.
"You're putting in extra time with Belikov?''"Yeah, so what?''"So the man is a god.''"Exaggerate much?" I asked."No, I'm serious.
I mean, he's all quiet and antisocial usually, but when he fights...wow.
If you think you're hurting now, you're going to be dead when he's done with you.''Great.
Something else to improve my day.I elbowed him and went on to second period.
That class covered the essentials of being a bodyguard and was required for all seniors.
Actually, it was the third in a series that had started junior year.
That meant I was behind in this class too, but I hoped protecting Lissa in the real world had given me some insight.Our instructor was Stan Alto, whom we referred to simply as "Stan" behind his back and "Guardian Alto" in formal settings.
He was a little older than Dimitri, but not nearly as tall, and he always looked pissed off.
Today, that look intensified when he walked into the classroom and saw me sitting there.
His eyes widened in mock surprise as he circled the room and came to stand beside my desk."What's this? No one told me we had a guest speaker here today.
Rose Hathaway.
What a privilege! How very generous of you to take time out of your busy schedule and share your knowledge with us.''I felt my cheeks burning, but in a great show of self-control, I stopped myself from telling him to fuck off.
I'm pretty sure my face must have delivered that message, however, because his sneer increased.
He gestured for me to stand up."Well, come on, come on.
Don't sit there! Come up to the front so you can help me lecture the class.''I sank into my seat.
"You don't really mean--''The taunting smile dried up.
"I mean exactly what I say, Hathaway.
Go to the front of the class.''A thick silence enveloped the room.
Stan was a scary instructor, and most of the class was too awed to laugh at my disgrace quite yet.
Refusing to crack, I strode up to the front of the room and turned to face the class.
I gave them a bold look and tossed my hair over my shoulders, earning a few sympathetic smiles from my friends.
I then noticed I had a larger audience than expected.
A few guardians--including Dimitri--lingered in the back of the room.
Outside the Academy, guardians focused on one-on-one protection.
Here, guardians had a lot more people to protect and they had to train the novices.
So rather than follow any one person around, they worked shifts guarding the school as a whole and monitoring classes."So, Hathaway," said Stan cheerfully, strolling back up to the front with me.
"Enlighten us about your protective techniques.''"My...techniques?''"Of course.
Because presumably you must have had some sort of plan the rest of us couldn't understand when you took an underage Moroi royal out of the Academy and exposed her to constant Strigoi threats.''It was the Kirova lecture all over again, except with more witnesses."We never ran into any Strigoi," I replied stiffly."Obviously," he said with a snicker.
"I already figured that out, seeing as how you're still alive.''I wanted to shout that maybe I could have defeated a Strigoi, but after getting beat up in the last class, I now suspected I couldn't have survived an attack by Mason, let alone an actual Strigoi.When I didn't say anything, Stan started pacing in front of the class."So what'd you do? How'd you make sure she stayed safe? Did you avoid going out at night?''"Sometimes." That was true--especially when we'd first run away.
We'd relaxed a little after months went by with no attacks."Sometimes," he repeated in a high-pitched voice, making my answer sound incredibly stupid.
"Well then, I suppose you slept during the day and stayed on guard at night.''"Er...no.''"No? But that's one of the first things mentioned in the chapter on solo guarding.
Oh wait, you wouldn't know that because you weren't here.''I swallowed back more swear words.
"I watched the area whenever we went out," I said, needing to defend myself."Oh? Well that's something.
Did you use Carnegie's Quadrant Surveillance Method or the Rotational Survey?''I didn't say anything."Ah.
I'm guessing you used the Hathaway Glance-Around-When-You-Remember-To Method.''"No!" I exclaimed angrily.
"That's not true.
I watched her.
She's still alive, isn't she?''He walked back up to me and leaned toward my face.
"Because you got lucky.''"Strigoi aren't lurking around every corner out there," I shot back.
"It's not like what we've been taught.
It's safer than you guys make it sound.''"Safer? Safer? We are at war with the Strigoi!" he yelled.
I could smell coffee on his breath, he was so close.
"One of them could walk right up to you and snap your pretty little neck before you even noticed him--and he'd barely break a sweat doing it.
You might have more speed and strength than a Moroi or a human, but you are nothing, nothing, compared to a Strigoi.
They are deadly, and they are powerful.
And do you know what makes them more powerful?''No way was I going to let this jerk make me cry.
Looking away from him, I tried to focus on something else.
My eyes rested on Dimitri and the other guardians.
They were watching my humiliation, stone-faced."Moroi blood," I whispered."What was that?" asked Stan loudly.
"I didn't catch it.''I spun back around to face him.
"Moroi blood! Moroi blood makes them stronger.''He nodded in satisfaction and took a few steps back.
"Yes.
It does.
It makes them stronger and harder to destroy.
They'll kill and drink from a human or dhampir, but they want Moroi blood more than anything else.
They seek it.
They've turned to the dark side to gain immortality, and they want to do whatever they can to keep that immortality.
Desperate Strigoi have attacked Moroi in public.
Groups of Strigoi have raided academies exactly like this one.
There are Strigoi who have lived for thousands of years and fed off generations of Moroi.
They're almost impossible to kill.
And that is why Moroi numbers are dropping.
They aren't strong enough--even with guardians-- to protect themselves.
Some Moroi don't even see the point of running anymore and are simply turning Strigoi by choice.
And as the Moroi disappear...''"...so do the dhampirs," I finished."Well," he said, licking sprayed spit off his lips.
"It looks like you learned something after all.
Now we'll have to see if you can learn enough to pass this class and qualify for your field experience next semester.''Ouch.
I spent the rest of that horrible class--in my seat, thankfully--replaying those last words in my mind.
The senior-year field experience was the best part of a novice's education.
We'd have no classes for half a semester.
Instead, we'd each be assigned a Moroi student to guard and follow around.
The adult guardians would monitor us and test us with staged attacks and other threats.
How a novice passed that field experience was almost as important as all the rest of her grades combined.
It could influence which Moroi she got assigned to after graduation.And me? There was only one Moroi I wanted.Two classes later, I finally earned my lunch escape.
As I stumbled across campus toward the commons, Dimitri fell into step beside me, not looking particularly godlike--unless you counted his godly good looks."I suppose you saw what happened in Stan's class?" I asked, not bothering with titles."Yes.''"And you don't think that was unfair?''"Was he right? Do you think you were fully prepared to protect Vasilisa?''I looked down at the ground.
"I kept her alive," I mumbled."How did you do fighting against your classmates today?''The question was mean.
I didn't answer and knew I didn't need to.
I'd had another training class after Stan's, and no doubt Dimitri had watched me get beat up there too."If you can't fight them--''"Yeah, yeah, I know," I snapped.He slowed his long stride to match my pain-filled one.
"You're strong and fast by nature.
You just need to keep yourself trained.
Didn't you play any sports while you were gone?''"Sure," I shrugged.
"Now and then.''"You didn't join any teams?''"Too much work.
If I'd wanted to practice that much, I'd have stayed here.''He gave me an exasperated look.
"You'll never be able to really protect the princess if you don't hone your skills.
You'll always be lacking.''"I'll be able to protect her," I said fiercely."You have no guarantees of being assigned to her, you know--for your field experience or after you graduate." Dimitri's voice was low and unapologetic.
They hadn't given me a warm and fuzzy mentor.
"No one wants to waste the bond-- but no one's going to give her an inadequate guardian either.
If you want to be with her, then you need to work for it.
You have your lessons.
You have me.
Use us or don't.
You're an ideal choice to guard Vasilisa when you both graduate--if you can prove you're worthy.
I hope you will.''"Lissa, call her Lissa," I corrected.
She hated her full name, much preferring the Americanized nickname.He walked away, and suddenly, I didn't feel like such a badass anymore.By now, I'd burned up a lot of time leaving class.
Most everyone else had long since sprinted inside the commons for lunch, eager to maximize their social time.
I'd almost made it back there myself when a voice under the door's overhang called to me."Rose?''Peering in the voice's direction, I caught sight of Victor Dashkov, his kind face smiling at me as he leaned on a cane near the building's wall.
His two guardians stood nearby at a polite distance."Mr.
Dash--er, Your Highness.
Hi.''I caught myself just in time, having nearly forgotten Moroi royal terms.
I hadn't used them while living among humans.
The Moroi chose their rulers from among twelve royal families.
The eldest in the family got the title of "prince" or "princess." Lissa had gotten hers because she was the only one left in her line."How was your first day?" he asked."Not over yet." I tried to think of something conversational.
"Are you visiting here for a while?''"I'll be leaving this afternoon after I say hello to Natalie.
When I heard Vasilisa--and you--had returned, I simply had to come see you.''I nodded, not sure what else to say.
