"You don't look like you're doing work.''I slid over the priest's book and opened it at random.
I'd placed it on the table when we sat down.
"We're, um, working on this.''She still looked suspicious.
"One hour.
I'll give you one more hour down here, and I'd better actually see you working.''"Yes, ma'am," said Mason straight-faced.
"Absolutely.''She wandered off, still eyeing us.
"My hero," I declared.He pointed at the book.
"What is this?''"Something the priest gave me.
I had a question about the service.''He stared at me, astonished."Oh, stop it and look interested." I skimmed the index.
"I'm trying to find some woman named Anna.''Mason slid his chair over so that he was sitting right beside me.
"All right.
Let's 'study.'``I found a page number, and it took me to the section on St.
Vladimir, not surprisingly.
We read through the chapter, scanning for Anna's name.
When we found it, the author didn't have much to say about her.
He did include an excerpt written by some guy who had apparently lived at the same time as St.
Vladimir:And with Vladimir always is Anna, the daughter of Fyodor.
Their love is as chaste and pure as that of brother and sister, and many times has she defended him from Strigoi who would seek to destroy him and his holiness.
Likewise, it is she who comforts him when the spirit becomes too much to bear, and Satan's darkness tries to smother him and weaken his own health and body.
This too she defends against, for they have been bound together ever since he saved her life as a child.
It is a sign of God's love that He has sent the blessed Vladimir a guardian such as her, one who is shadow-kissed and always knows what is in his heart and mind."There you go," Mason said.
"She was his guardian.""It doesn't say what 'shadow-kissed' means.''"Probably doesn't mean anything.''Something in me didn't believe that.
I read it again, trying to make sense of the old-fashioned language.
Mason watched me curiously, looking like he very much wanted to help."Maybe they were hooking up," he suggested.I laughed.
"He was a saint.''"So? Saints probably like sex too.
That 'brother and sister' stuff is probably a cover." He pointed to one of the lines.
"See? They were 'bound' together." He winked.
"It's code.''Bound.
It was a weird word choice, but that didn't necessarily mean Anna and Vladimir were ripping each other's clothes off."I don't think so.
They're just close.
Guys and girls can just be friends." I said it pointedly, and he gave me a dry look."Yeah? We're friends, and I don't know what's in your 'heart and mind.'" Mason put on a fake philosopher's look.
"Of course, some might argue that one can never know what's in the heart of a woman--''"Oh, shut up," I groaned, punching him in the arm."For they are strange and mysterious creatures," he continued in his scholarly voice, "and a man must be a mind reader if he ever wishes to make them happy.''I started giggling uncontrollably and knew I'd probably get in trouble again.
"Well, try to read my mind and stop being such a--''I stopped laughing and looked back down at the book.Bound together and always knows what is in his heart and mind.They had a bond, I realized.
I would have bet everything I owned--which wasn't much--on it.
The revelation was astonishing.
There were lots of vague stories and myths about how guardians and Moroi 'used to have bonds.' But this was the first I'd ever heard of anyone specific that it had happened to.Mason had noticed my startled reaction.
"You okay? You look kind of weird.''I shrugged it off.
"Yeah.
Fine."SevenA COUPLE WEEKS PASSED AFTER that, and I soon forgot about the Anna thing as life at the Academy wrapped around me.
The shock of our return had worn off a little, and we began to fall into a semi-comfortable routine.
My days revolved around church, lunch with Lissa, and whatever sort of social life I could scrape together outside of that.
Denied any real free time, I didn't have too hard a time staying out of the spotlight, although I did manage to steal a little attention here and there, despite my noble speech to her about 'coasting through the middle.' I couldn't help it.
I liked flirting, I liked groups, and I liked making smartass comments in class.Her new, incognito role attracted attention simply because it was so different than before we'd left, back when she'd been so active with the royals.
Most people soon let that go, accepting that the Dragomir princess was fading off the social radar and content to run with Natalie and her group.
Natalie's rambling still made me want to beat my head against a wall sometimes, but she was really nice--nicer than almost any of the other royals--and I enjoyed hanging around her most of the time.And, just as Kirova had warned, I was indeed training and working out all the time.
But as more time passed, my body stopped hating me.
My muscles grew tougher, and my stamina increased.
I still got my ass kicked in practice but not quite as badly as I used to, which was something.
The biggest toll now seemed to be on my skin.
Being outside in the cold so much was chapping my face, and only Lissa's constant supply of skin-care lotions kept me from aging before my time.
She couldn't do much for the blisters on my hands and feet.A routine also developed with Dimitri and me.
Mason had been right about him being antisocial.
Dimitri didn't hang out much with the other guardians, though it was clear they all respected him.
And the more I worked with him, the more I respected him too, though I didn't really understand his training methods.
They didn't seem very badass.
We always started by stretching in the gym, and lately he'd been sending me outside to run, braving the increasingly cold Montana autumn.Three weeks after my return to the Academy, I walked into the gym before school one day and found him sprawled on a mat, reading a Louis L'Amour book.
Someone had brought in a portable CD player, and while that cheered me up at first, the song coming from it did not: "When Doves Cry" by Prince.
It was embarrassing to know the title, but one of our former housemates had been obsessed with the '80s."Whoa, Dimitri," I said, tossing my bag on the floor.
"I realize this is actually a current hit in Eastern Europe right now, but do you think we could maybe listen to something that wasn't recorded before I was born?''Only his eyes flicked toward me; the rest of his posture remained the same.
"What does it matter to you? I'm the one who's going to be listening to it.
You'll be outside running.''I made a face as I set my foot up on one of the bars and stretched my hamstrings.
All things considered, Dimitri had a good-natured tolerance for my snarkiness.
So long as I didn't slack in my training, he didn't mind my running commentary."Hey," I asked, moving on to the next set of stretches, "what's with all the running, anyway? I mean, I realize the importance of stamina and all that, but shouldn't I be moving on to something with a little hitting? They're still killing me in group practice.''"Maybe you should hit harder," he replied drily."I'm serious.''"Hard to tell the difference." He set the book down but didn't move from his sprawl.
"My job is to get you ready to defend the princess and fight dark creatures, right?''"Yup.''"So tell me this: suppose you manage to kidnap her again and take her off to the mall.
While you're there, a Strigoi comes at you.
What will you do?''"Depends on what store we're in.''He looked at me."Fine.
I'll stab him with a silver stake.''Dimitri sat up now, crossing his long legs in one fluid motion.
I still couldn't figure out how someone so tall could be so graceful.
"Oh?" He raised his dark eyebrows.
"Do you have a silver stake? Do you even know how to use one?''I dragged my eyes away from his body and scowled.
Made with elemental magic, silver stakes were a guardian's deadliest weapon.
Stabbing a Strigoi through the heart with one meant instant death.
The blades were also lethal to Moroi, so they weren't given out lightly to novices.
My classmates had just started learning how to use them.
I'd trained with a gun before, but no one would let me near a stake yet.
Fortunately, there were two other ways to kill a Strigoi."Okay.
I'll cut his head off.''"Ignoring the fact that you don't have a weapon to do that, how will you compensate for the fact that he may be a foot taller than you?''I straightened up from touching my toes, annoyed.
"Fine, then I'll set him on fire.''"Again, with what?''"All right, I give up.
You've already got the answer.
You're just messing with me.
I'm at the mall and I see a Strigoi.
What do I do?''He looked at me and didn't blink.
"You run.''I repressed the urge to throw something at him.
When I finished my stretches, he told me he'd run with me.
That was a first.
Maybe running would give me some insight into his killer reputation.We set out into the chilly October evening.
Being back on a vampiric schedule still felt weird to me.
With school about to start in an hour, I expected the sun to be coming up, not down.
But it was sinking on the western horizon, lighting up the snow-capped mountains with an orange glow.
It didn't really warm things up, and I soon felt the cold pierce my lungs as my need for oxygen deepened.
We didn't speak.
He slowed his pace to match mine, so we stayed together.Something about that bothered me; I suddenly very much wanted his approval.
So I picked up my own pace, working my lungs and muscles harder.
Twelve laps around the track made three miles; we had nine more to go.When we reached the third-to-last loop, a couple of other novices passed by, preparing to go to the group practice I'd soon be at as well.
Seeing me, Mason cheered.
"Good form, Rose!''I smiled and waved back."You're slowing down," Dimitri snapped, jerking my gaze from the boys.
The harshness in his voice startled me.
"Is this why your times aren't getting any faster? You're easily distracted?''Embarrassed, I increased my speed once more, despite the fact that my body started screaming obscenities at me.
We finished the twelve laps, and when he checked, he found we'd shaved two minutes off my best time."Not bad, huh?" I crowed when we headed back inside for cool-down stretches.
"Looks like I could get as far as the Limited before the Strigoi got me at the mall.
Not sure how Lissa would do.''"If she was with you, she'd be okay.''I looked up in surprise.
It was the first real compliment he'd paid me since I started training with him.
His brown eyes watched me, both approving and amused.And that's when it happened.I felt like someone had shot me.
Sharp and biting, terror exploded in my body and in my head.
Small razors of pain.
My vision blurred, and for a moment, I wasn't standing there.
I was running down a flight of stairs, scared and desperate, needing to get out of there, needing to find...me.My vision cleared, leaving me back on the track and out of Lissa's head.
Without a word to Dimitri, I tore off, running as fast as I could toward the Moroi dorm.
It didn't matter that I'd just put my legs through a mini-marathon.
They ran hard and fast, like they were shiny and new.
Distantly, I was aware of Dimitri catching up to me, asking me what was wrong.
But I couldn't answer him.
I had one task and one alone: get to the dorm.Its looming, ivy-covered form was just coming into view when Lissa met up with us, her face streaked with tears.
I came to a jarring stop, my lungs ready to burst."What's wrong? What happened?" I demanded, clutching her arms, forcing her to look into my eyes.But she couldn't answer.
She just flung her arms around me, sobbing into my chest.
I held her there, stroking her sleek, silky hair while I told her it was going to be all right--whatever 'it' was.
And honestly, I didn't care what it was just then.
She was here, and she was safe, which was all that mattered.
Dimitri hovered over us, alert and ready for any threat, his body coiled to attack.
I felt safe with him beside us.A half hour later, we were crammed inside Lissa's dorm room with three other guardians, Ms.
Kirova, and the hall matron.
This was the first time I'd seen Lissa's room.
Natalie had indeed managed to get her as a roommate, and the two sides of the room were a study in contrasts.
Natalie's looked lived in, with pictures on the wall and a frilly bedspread that wasn't dorm-issue.
Lissa had as few possessions as I did, making her half noticeably bare.
She did have one picture taped to the wall, a picture taken from last Halloween, when we'd dressed up like fairies, complete with wings and glittery makeup.
Seeing that picture and remembering how things used to be made a dull pain form in my chest.With all the excitement, no one seemed to remember that I wasn't supposed to be in there.
Outside in the hall, other Moroi girls crowded together, trying to figure out what was going on.
Natalie pushed her way through them, wondering what the commotion in her room was.
When she discovered it, she came to a screeching halt.Shock and disgust showed on almost everyone's faces as we stared at Lissa's bed.
There was a fox on the pillow.
Its coat was reddish-orange, tinged in white.
It looked so soft and cuddly that it could have been a pet, perhaps a cat, something you'd hold in your arms and snuggle with.Aside from the fact that its throat had been slit.The inside of the throat looked pink and jellylike.
Blood stained that soft coat and had run down onto the yellow bedspread, forming a dark pool that spread across the fabric.
The fox's eyes stared upward, glazed, over with a sort of shocked look about them, like the fox couldn't believe this was happening.Nausea built up in my stomach, but I forced myself to keep looking.
I couldn't afford to be squeamish.
I'd be killing Strigoi someday.
If I couldn't handle a fox, I'd never survive major kills.What had happened to the fox was sick and twisted, obviously done by someone too fucked up for words.
Lissa stared at it, her face death-pale, and took a few steps toward it, hand involuntarily reaching out.
This gross act hit her hard, I knew, digging at her love of animals.
She loved them, they loved her.
While on our own, she'd often begged me for a pet, but I'd always refused and reminded her we couldn't take care of one when we might have to flee at a moment's notice.
Plus, they hated me.
So she'd contented herself with helping and patching up strays she found and making friends with other people's pets, like Oscar the cat.She couldn't patch this fox up, though.
There was no coming back for it, but I saw in her face she wanted to help it, like she helped everything.
I took her hand and steered her away, suddenly recalling a conversation from two years ago."What is that? Is it a crow?''"Too big.
It's a raven.''"Is it dead?''"Yeah.
Definitely dead.
Don't touch it.''She hadn't listened to me back then.
I hoped she would now."It was still alive when I got back," Lissa whispered to me, clutching my arm.
"Barely.
Oh God, it was twitching.
It must have suffered so much.''I felt bile rise in my throat now.
Under no circumstances would I throw up.
"Did you--?''"No.
I wanted to...I started to...''"Then forget about it," I said sharply.
"It's stupid.
Somebody's stupid joke.
They'll clean it up.
Probably even give you a new room if you want.''She turned to me, eyes almost wild.
"Rose...do you remember...that one time...''"Stop it," I said.
"Forget about it.
This isn't the same thing.''"What if someone saw? What if someone knows?...''I tightened my grip on her arm, digging my nails in to get her attention.
She flinched.
"No.
It's not the same.
It has nothing to do with that.
Do you hear me?" I could feel both Natalie and Dimitri's eyes on us.
"It's going to be okay.
Everything's going to be okay.''Not looking like she believed me at all, Lissa nodded."Get this cleaned up," Kirova snapped to the matron.
"And find out if anyone saw anything.''Someone finally realized I was there and ordered Dimitri to take me away, no matter how much I begged them to let me stay with Lissa.
He walked me back to the novices' dorm.
He didn't speak until we were almost there.
"You know something.
Something about what happened.
Is this what you meant when you told Headmistress Kirova that Lissa was in danger?""I don't know anything.
It's just some sick joke.""Do you have any idea who'd do it? Or why?"I considered this.
Before we'd left, it could have been any number of people.
That was the way it was when you were popular.
People loved you, people hated you.
But now? Lissa had faded off to a certain extent.
The only person who really and truly despised her was Mia, but Mia seemed to fight her battles with words, not actions.
And even if she did decide to do something more aggressive, why do this? She didn't seem like the type.
There were a million other ways to get back at a person.
"No," I told him.
"No clue.''"Rose, if you know something, tell me.
We're on the same side.
We both want to protect her.
This is serious.''I spun around, taking my anger over the fox out on him.
"Yeah, it is serious.
It's all serious.
And you have me doing laps every day when I should be learning to fight and defend her! If you want to help her, then teach me something! Teach me how to fight.
I already know how to run away.''I didn't realize until that moment how badly I did want to learn, how I wanted to prove myself to him, to Lissa, and to everyone else.
The fox incident had made me feel powerless, and I didn't like that.
I wanted to do something, anything.Dimitri watched my outburst calmly, with no change in his expression.
When I finished, he simply beckoned me forward like I hadn't said anything.
"Come on.
You're late for practice."EightBURNING WITH ANGER, I FOUGHT harder and better that day than I ever had in any of my classes with the novices.
So much so that I finally won my first hand-to-hand pairing, annihilating Shane Reyes.
We'd always gotten along, and he took it good-naturedly, applauding my performance, as did a few others."The comeback's starting," observed Mason after class."So it would seem.''He gently touched my arm.
"How's Lissa?''It didn't surprise me that he knew.
Gossip spread so fast around here sometimes, it felt like everyone had a psychic bond."Okay.
Coping." I didn't elaborate on how I knew that.
Our bond was a secret from the student body.
"Mase, you claim to know about Mia.
You think she might have done that?''"Whoa, hey, I'm not an expert on her or anything.
But honestly? No.
Mia won't even do dissections in biology.
I can't picture her actually catching a fox, let alone, um, killing it.''"Any friends who might do it for her?''He shook his head.
"Not really.
They're not really the types to get their hands dirty either.
But who knows?''Lissa was still shaken when I met her for lunch later, her mood made worse when Natalie and her crew wouldn't shut up about the fox.
Apparently Natalie had overcome her disgust enough to enjoy the attention the spectacle had brought her.
Maybe she wasn't as content with her fringe status as I'd always believed."And it was just there," she explained, waving her hands for emphasis.
"Right in the middle of the bed.
There was blood everywhere.''Lissa looked as green as the sweater she wore, and I pulled her away before I even finished my food and immediately launched into a string of obscenities about Natalie's social skills."She's nice," Lissa said automatically.
"You were just telling me the other day how much you liked her.''"I do like her, but she's just incompetent about certain things.''We stood outside our animal behavior class, and I noticed people giving us curious looks and whispering as they passed.
I sighed."How are you doing with all this?''A half-smile crossed her face.
"Can't you already feel it?''"Yeah, but I want to hear it from you.''"I don't know.
I'll be okay.
I wish everyone wouldn't keep staring at me like I'm some kind of freak.''My anger exploded again.
The fox was bad.
People upsetting her made it worse, but at least I could do something about them.
"Who's bothering you?''"Rose, you can't beat up everyone we have a problem with.''"Mia?" I guessed."And others," she said evasively.
"Look, it doesn't matter.
What I want to know is how this could have...that is, I can't stop thinking about that time--''"Don't," I warned."Why do you keep pretending that didn't happen? You of all people.
You made fun of Natalie for going on and on, but it's not like you've got a good grip on your control switch.
You'll normally talk about anything.''"But not that.
We need to forget about it.
It was a long time ago.
We don't even really know what happened.''She stared at me with those big green eyes, calculating her next argument."Hey, Rose.''Our conversation dropped as Jesse strolled up to us.
I turned on my best smile."Hey.''He nodded cordially to Lissa.
"So hey, I'm going to be in your dorm tonight for a study group.
You think...maybe...''Momentarily forgetting Lissa, I focused my full attention on Jesse.
Suddenly, I so needed to do something wild and bad.
Too much had happened today.
"Sure.''He told me when he'd be there, and I told him I'd meet him in one of the common areas with "further instructions.''Lissa stared at me when he left.
"You're under house arrest.
They won't let you hang out and talk to him.''"I don't really want to 'talk' to him.
We'll slip away."She groaned.
"I just don't know about you sometimes.""That's because you're the cautious one, and I'm the reckless one."Once animal behavior started, I pondered the likelihood of Mia being responsible.
From the smug look on her psycho-angel face, she certainly seemed to be enjoying the sensation caused by the bloody fox.
But that didn't mean she was the culprit, and after observing her over the last couple of weeks, I knew she'd enjoy anything that upset Lissa and me.
She didn't need to be the one who had done it."Wolves, like many other species, differentiate their packs into alpha males and alpha females whom the others defer to.
Alphas are almost always the strongest physically, though many times, confrontations turn out to be more a matter of willpower and personality.
When an alpha is challenged and replaced, that wolf may find himself ostracized from the group or even attacked.''I looked up from my daydreams and focused on Ms.
Meissner."Most challenges are likely to occur during mating season," she continued.
This, naturally, brought snickers from the class.
"In most packs, the alpha pair are the only ones who mate.
If the alpha male is an older, seasoned wolf, a younger competitor may think he has a shot.
Whether that is true works on a case-by-case basis.
The young often don't realize how seriously outclassed they are by the more experienced.''The old-and-young-wolf thing notwithstanding, I thought the rest was pretty relevant.
Certainly in the Academy's social structure, I decided bitterly, there seemed to be a lot of alphas and challenges.Mia raised her hand.
"What about foxes? Do they have alphas too?''There was a collective intake of breath from the class, followed by a few nervous giggles.
No one could believe Mia had gone there.Ms.
Meissner flushed with what I suspected was anger.
"We're discussing wolves today, Miss Rinaldi.''Mia didn't seem to mind the subtle chastising, and when the class paired off to work on an assignment, she spent more time looking over at us and giggling.
Through the bond, I could feel Lissa growing more and more upset as images of the fox kept flashing through her mind."Don't worry," I told her.
"I've got a way--''"Hey, Lissa," someone interrupted.We both looked up as Ralf Sarcozy stopped by our desks.
He wore his trademark stupid grin, and I had a feeling he'd come over here on a dare from his friends."So, admit it," he said.
"You killed the fox.
You're trying to convince Kirova you're crazy so that you can get out of here again.''"Screw you," I told him in a low voice."Are you offering?''"From what I've heard, there isn't much to screw," I shot back."Wow," he said mockingly.
"You have changed.
Last I remembered, you weren't too picky about who you got naked with.''"And the last I remember, the only people you ever saw naked were on the Internet.''He cocked his head in an overly dramatic fashion.
"Hey, I just got it: it was you, wasn't it?" He looked at Lissa, the back at me.
