She worried I'd be mad because she'd used her powers.
She dreaded going through another school day tomorrow, pretending she liked being with a crowd who had no other interests aside from spending their families' money and making fun of those less beautiful and less popular.
She didn't want to go to the dance with Aaron and see him watch her so adoringly--and feel him touching her--when she felt only friendship for him.Most of these were all normal concerns, but they hit her hard, harder than they would an ordinary person, I thought.
She couldn't sort through them or figure out how to fix them."You okay?''She looked up and brushed the hair away from where it stuck to her wet cheeks.
Christian stood in the entrance to the attic.
She hadn't even heard him come up the stairs.
She'd been too lost in her own grief.
A flicker of both longing and anger sparked within her."I'm fine," she snapped.
Sniffling, she tried to stop her tears, not wanting him to see her weak.Leaning against the wall, he crossed his arms and wore an unreadable expression.
"Do...do you want to talk?''"Oh .
.
." She laughed harshly.
"You want to talk now? After I tried so many times--''"I didn't want that! That was Rose--''He cut himself off and I flinched.
I was totally busted.Lissa stood up and strode toward him.
"What about Rose?''"Nothing." His mask of indifference slipped back into place.
"Forget it.''"What about Rose?" She stepped closer.
Even through her anger, she still felt that inexplicable attraction to him.
And then she understood.
"She made you, didn't she? She told you to stop talking to me?''He stared stonily ahead.
"It was probably for the best.
I would have just messed things up for you.
You wouldn't be where you are now.''"What's that supposed to mean?''"What do you think it means? God.
People live or die at your command now, Your Highness.''"You're being kind of melodramatic.''"Am I? All day, I hear people talking about what you're doing and what you're thinking and what you're wearing.
Whether you'll approve.
Who you like.
Who you hate.
They're your puppets.''"It's not like that.
Besides, I had to do it.
To get back at Mia...''Rolling his eyes, he looked away from her.
"You don't even know what you're getting back at her for.''Lissa's anger flared.
"She set up Jesse and Ralf to say those things about Rose! I couldn't let her get away with that.''"Rose is tough.
She would have gotten over it.''"You didn't see her," she replied obstinately.
"She was crying.''"So? People cry.
You're crying.''"Not Rose.''He turned back to her, a dark smile curling his lips.
"I've never seen anything like you two.
Always so worried about each other.
I get her thing--some kind of weird guardian hang-up--but you're just the same.''"She's my friend.''"I guess it's that simple.
I wouldn't know." He sighed, momentarily thoughtful, then snapped back to sarcastic mode.
"Anyway.
Mia.
So you got back at her over what she did to Rose.
But you're missing the point.
Why did she do it?''Lissa frowned.
"Because she was jealous about me and Aaron--''"More to it than that, Princess.
What did she have to be jealous about? She already had him.
She didn't need to attack you to drive that home.
She could have just made a big show of being all over him.
Sort of like you are now," he added wryly."Okay.
What else is there, then? Why did she want to ruin my life? I never did anything to her--before all this, I mean.''He leaned forward, crystal-blue eyes boring into hers."You're right.
You didn't--but your brother did.''Lissa pulled away from him.
"You don't know anything about my brother.''"I know he screwed Mia over.
Literally.''"Stop it, stop lying.''"I'm not.
Swear to God or whoever else you want to believe in.
I used to talk to Mia now and then, back when she was a freshman.
She wasn't very popular, but she was smart.
Still is.
She used to work on a lot of committees with royals-- dances and stuff.
I don't know all of it.
But she got to know your brother on one of those, and they sort of got together.''"They did not.
I would have known.
Andre would have told me.''"Nope.
He didn't tell anyone.
He told her not to either.
He convinced her it should be some kind of romantic secret when really, he just didn't want any of his friends to find out he was getting naked with a non-royal freshman.''"If Mia told you that, she was making it up," exclaimed Lissa."Yeah, well, I don't think she was making it up when I saw her crying.
He got tired of her after a few weeks and dumped her.
Told her she was too young and that he couldn't really get serious with someone who wasn't from a good family.
From what I understand, he wasn't even nice about it either--didn't even bother with the 'let's be friends' stuff.''Lissa pushed herself into Christian's face.
"You didn't even know Andre! He would never have done that.''"You didn't know him.
I'm sure he was nice to his baby sister; I'm sure he loved you.
But in school, with his friends, he was just as much of a jerk as the rest of the royals.
I saw him because I see everything.
Easy when no one notices you.''She held back a sob, unsure whether to believe him or not.
"So this is why Mia hates me?''"Yup.
She hates you because of him.
That, and because you're royal and she's insecure around all royals, which is why she worked so hard to claw up the ranks and be their friend.
I think it's a coincidence that she ended up with your ex-boyfriend, but now that you're back, that probably made it worse.
Between stealing him and spreading those stories about her parents, you guys really picked the best ways to make her suffer.
Nice work.''The smallest pang of guilt lurched inside of her.
"I still think you're lying.''"I'm a lot of things, but I'm not a liar.
That's your department.
And Rose's.''"We don't--''"Exaggerate stories about people's families? Say that you hate me? Pretend to be friends with people you think are stupid? Date a guy you don't like?''"I like him.''"Like or like?''"Oh, there's a difference?''"Yes.
Like is when you date a big, blond moron and laugh at his stupid jokes.''Then, out of nowhere, he leaned forward and kissed her.
It was hot and fast and furious, an outpouring of the rage and passion and longing that Christian always kept locked inside of him.
Lissa had never been kissed like that, and I felt her respond to it, respond to him--how he made her feel so much more alive than Aaron or anyone else could.Christian pulled back from the kiss but still kept his face next to hers."That's what you do with someone you like.''Lissa's heart pounded with both anger and desire.
"Well, I don't like or like you.
And I think you and Mia are both lying about Andre.
Aaron would never make up anything like that.''"That's because Aaron doesn't say anything that requires words of more than one syllable.''She pulled away.
"Get out.
Get away from me.''He looked around comically.
"You can't throw me out.
We both signed the lease.''"Get.
Out!" she yelled.
"I hate you!''He bowed.
"Anything you want, Your Highness." With a final dark look, he left the attic.Lissa sank to her knees, letting out the tears she'd held back from him.
I could barely make sense out of all the things hurting her.
God only knew things upset me--like the Jesse incident--but they didn't attack me in the same way.
They swirled within her, beating at her brain.
The stories about Andre.
Mia's hate.
Christian's kiss.
Healing me.
This, I realized, was what real depression felt like.
What madness felt like.Overcome, drowning in her own pain, Lissa made the only decision she could.
The only thing she could do to channel all of these emotions.
She opened up her purse and found the tiny razor blade she always carried....Sickened, yet unable to break away, I felt as she cut her left arm, making perfectly even marks, watching as the blood flowed across her white skin.
As always, she avoided veins, but her cuts were deeper this time.
The cutting stung horribly, yet in doing it, she was able to focus on the physical pain, distract herself from the mental anguish so that she could feel like she was in control.Drops of blood splattered onto the dusty floor, and her world began spinning.
Seeing her own blood intrigued her.
She had taken blood from others her entire life.
Me.
The feeders.
Now, here it was, leaking out.
With a nervous giggle, she decided it was funny.
Maybe by letting it out, she was giving it back to those she'd stolen it from.
Or maybe she was wasting it, wasting the sacred Dragomir blood that everyone obsessed over.I'd forced my way into her head, and now I couldn't get out.
Her emotions had ensnared me now--they were too strong and too powerful.
But I had to escape--I knew it with every ounce of my being.
I had to stop her.
She was too weak from the healing to lose this much blood.
It was time to tell someone.Breaking out at last, I found myself back in the clinic.
Dimitri's hands were on me, gently shaking me as he said my name over and over in an effort to get my attention.
Dr.
Olendzki stood beside him, face dark and concerned.I stared at Dimitri, truly seeing how much he worried and cared about me.
Christian had told me to get help, to go to someone I trusted about Lissa.
I'd ignored the advice because I didn't trust anyone except her.
But looking at Dimitri now, feeling that sense of understanding we shared, I knew that I did trust someone else.I felt my voice crack as I spoke.
"I know where she is.
Lissa.
We have to help her."NineteenIT'S HARD TO SAY WHAT finally made me do it.
I'd held on to so many secrets for so long, doing what I believed best protected Lissa.
But hiding her cutting did nothing to protect her.
I hadn't been able to make her stop--and really, I now wondered if it was my fault she'd ever started.
None of this had happened until she healed me in the accident.
What if she'd left me injured? Maybe I would have recovered.
Maybe she would be all right today.I stayed in the clinic while Dimitri went to get Alberta.
He hadn't hesitated for a second when I told him where she was.
I'd said she was in danger, and he'd left immediately.Everything after that moved like some sort of slow-motion nightmare.
The minutes dragged on while I waited.
When he finally returned with an unconscious Lissa, a flurry arose at the clinic, one everyone wanted me kept out of.
She had lost a lot of blood, and while they had a feeder on hand right away, rousing her to enough consciousness to drink proved difficult.
It wasn't until the middle of the Academy's night that someone decided she was stable enough for me to visit."Is it true?" she asked when I walked into the room.
She lay on the bed, wrists heavily bandaged.
I knew they'd put a lot of blood back into her, but she still looked pale to me.
"They said it was you.
You told them.''"I had to," I said, afraid to get too close.
"Liss...you cut yourself worse than you ever have.
And after healing me...and then everything with Christian...you couldn't handle it.
You needed help.''She closed her eyes.
"Christian.
You know about that.
Of course you do.
You know about everything.''"I'm sorry.
I just wanted to help.''"What happened to what Ms.
Karp said? About keeping it all secret?''"She was talking about the other stuff.
I don't think she'd want you to keep cutting yourself.''"Did you tell them about the 'other stuff'?''I shook my head.
"Not yet.''She turned toward me, eyes cold.
"'Yet.' But you're going to.''"I have to.
You can heal other people...but it's killing you.''"I healed you.''"I would have been okay eventually.
The ankle would have healed.
It's not worth what it does to you.
And I think I know how it started...when you first healed me....''I explained my revelation about the accident and how all of her powers and depression had started after that.
I also pointed out how our bond had formed after the accident too, though I didn't fully understand why yet."I don't know what's going on, but this is beyond us.
We need someone's help.''"They'll take me away," she said flatly.
"Like Ms.
Karp.''"I think they'll try to help you.
They were all really worried.
Liss, I'm doing this for you.
I just want you to be okay.''She turned away from me.
"Get out, Rose.''I did.They released her the next morning on the condition that she'd have to come back for daily visits to the counselor.
Dimitri told me they also planned on putting her on some sort of medication to help with the depression.
I wasn't a big fan of pills, but I'd cheer on anything that would help her.Unfortunately, some sophomore had been in the clinic for an asthma attack.
He'd seen her come in with Dimitri and Alberta.
He didn't know why she'd been admitted, but that hadn't stopped him from telling people in his hall what he'd seen.
They then told others at breakfast.
By lunch, all the upperclassmen knew about the late-night clinic visit.And more importantly, everyone knew she wasn't speaking to me.Just like that, whatever social headway I'd made plummeted.
She didn't outright condemn me, but her silence spoke legions, and people behaved accordingly.The whole day, I walked around the Academy like a ghost.
People watched and occasionally spoke to me, but few made much more effort than that.
They followed Lissa's lead, imitating her silence.
No one was openly mean to me--they probably didn't want to risk it in case she and I patched things up.
Still, I heard "blood whore" whispered here and there when someone thought I wasn't listening.Mason would have welcomed me to his lunch table, but some of his friends might not have been so nice.
I didn't want to be the cause of any fights between him and them.
So I chose Natalie instead."I heard Lissa tried to run away again, and you stopped her," Natalie said.
No one had a clue why she'd been in the clinic yet.
I hoped it stayed that way.Running away? Where in the world had that come from? "Why would she do that?''"I don't know." She lowered her voice.
"Why'd she leave before? It's just what I heard.''That story raged on as the day passed, as did all sorts of rumors about why Lissa might have gone to the med clinic.
Pregnancy and abortion theories were eternally popular.
Some whispered she might have gotten Victor's disease.
No one even came close to guessing the truth.Leaving our last class as quickly as possible, I was astonished when Mia started walking toward me."What do you want?" I demanded.
"I can't come out and play today, little girl.''"You sure have an attitude for someone who doesn't exist right now.''"As opposed to you?" I asked.
Remembering what Christian had said, I did feel a little sorry for her.
That guilt disappeared after I took one look at her face.
She might have been a victim, but now she was a monster.
There was a cold, cunning look about her, very different from the desperate and depressed one from the other day.
She hadn't stayed beaten after what Andre had done to her--if that was even true, and I believed it was--and I doubted she would with Lissa either.
Mia was a survivor."She got rid of you, and you're too high and mighty to admit it." Her blue eyes practically bugged out.
"Don't you want to get back at her?''"Are you more psycho than usual? She's my best friend.
And why are you still following me?''Mia tsked.
"She doesn't act like it.
Come on, tell me what happened at the clinic.
It's something big, isn't it? She really is pregnant, right? Tell me what it is.''"Go away.''"If you tell me, I'll get Jesse and Ralf to say they made all that stuff up.''I stopped walking and spun around to face her.
Scared, she took a few steps backward.
She must have recalled some of my past threats of physical violence."I already know they made it all up, because I didn't do any of it.
And if you try to turn me against Lissa one more time, the stories are going to be about you bleeding, because I'll have ripped your throat out!''My voice grew louder with each word until I practically shouted.
Mia stepped back further, clearly terrified."You really are crazy.
No wonder she dropped you." She shrugged.
"Whatever.
I'll find out what's going on without you."When the dance came that weekend, I decided I really didn't want to go.
It had sounded stupid to begin with, and I'd only been interested in going to the after-parties anyway.
But without Lissa, I wasn't likely to gain admission to those.
Instead, I holed up in my room, trying--and failing--to do some homework.
Through the bond, I felt all sorts of mixed emotions from her, particularly anxiety and excitement.
It had to be hard hanging out all night with a guy you didn't really like.About ten minutes after the dance's start time, I decided to clean up and take a shower.
When I came back down the hall from the bathroom, a towel wrapped around my head, I saw Mason standing outside my door.
He wasn't exactly dressed up, but he also wasn't wearing jeans.
It was a start."There you are, party girl.
I was about ready to give up.''"Did you start another fire? No guys allowed in this hall.''"Whatever.
Like that makes a difference." True.
The school might be able to keep Strigoi out, but they did a horrible job at keeping the rest of us away from each other.
"Let me in.
You've got to get ready.''It took me a minute to realize what he meant.
"No.
I'm not going.''"Come on," he prodded, following me inside.
"'Cause you had a fight with Lissa? You guys are going to make up soon.
No reason for you to stay here all night.
If you don't want to be around her, Eddie's getting a group together over in his room later.''My old, fun-loving spirit perked its head up just a bit.
No Lissa.
Probably no royals.
"Yeah?''Seeing that he was starting to get me, Mason grinned.
Looking at his eyes, I realized again how much he liked me.
And again I wondered, Why couldn't I just have a normal boyfriend? Why did I want my hot, older mentor--the mentor I'd probably end up getting fired?"It'll just be novices," Mason continued, oblivious to my thoughts.
"And I have a surprise for you when we get there.''"Is it in a bottle?" If Lissa wanted to ignore me, I had no reason to keep myself sober."No, that's at Eddie's.
Hurry up and get dressed.
I know you aren't wearing that.''I looked down at my ripped jeans and University of Oregon T-shirt.
Yeah.
Definitely not wearing this.Fifteen minutes later, we cut across the quad back over to the commons, laughing as we recounted how a particularly clumsy classmate of ours had given himself a black eye in practice this week.
Moving quickly over the frozen ground wasn't easy in heels, and he kept grabbing my arm to keep me from falling over, half-dragging me along.
It made us laugh that much more.
A happy feeling started to well up in me--I wasn't entirely rid of the ache for Lissa, but this was a start.Maybe I didn't have her and her friends, but I had my own friends.
It was also very likely that I was going to get head-over-heels drunk tonight, which, while not a great way to solve my problems, would at least be really fun.
Yeah.
My life could be worse.Then we ran into Dimitri and Alberta.They were on their way somewhere else, talking guardian business.
Alberta smiled when she saw us, giving us the kind of indulgent look older people always give to younger people who appear to be having fun and acting silly.
Like she thought we were cute.
The nerve.
We stumbled to a halt, and Mason put a hand on my arm to steady me."Mr.
Ashford, Miss Hathaway.
I'm surprised you aren't already in the commons.''Mason gave her an angelic, teacher's-pet smile.
"Got delayed, Guardian Petrov.
You know how it is with girls.
Always got to look perfect.
You especially must know all about that.''Normally I would have elbowed him for saying something so stupid, but I was staring at Dimitri and incapable of speech.
Perhaps more importantly, he was staring at me too.I had on the black dress, and it was everything I'd hoped it could be.
In fact, it was a wonder Alberta didn't call me on the dress code right there and then.
The fabric clung everywhere, and no Moroi girl's chest could have held this dress up.
Victor's rose hung around my neck, and I'd done a hasty blow-dry of my hair, leaving it down the way I knew Dimitri liked it.
I hadn't worn tights because no one wore tights with dresses like this anymore, so my feet were freezing in the heels.
All for the sake of looking good.And I was pretty sure I looked damn good, but Dimitri's face wasn't giving anything away.
He just looked at me--and looked and looked.
Maybe that said something about my appearance in and of itself.
Remembering how Mason sort of held my hand, I pulled away from him.
He and Alberta finished up their joking remarks, and we all went our separate ways.Music blasted inside the commons when we arrived, white Christmas lights and--ugh--a disco ball casting the only light in the otherwise darkened room.
Gyrating bodies, mostly underclassmen, packed the dance floor.
Those who were our age stood in too-cool clusters along the edges of the room, waiting for an opportune time to sneak off.
An assortment of chaperones, guardians and Moroi teachers alike, patrolled around, breaking up those dancers who did a little too much gyrating.When I saw Kirova in a sleeveless plaid dress, I turned to Mason and said, "Are you sure we can't hit the hard liquor yet?''He snickered and took my hand again.
"Come on, time for your surprise.''Letting him lead me, I walked across the room, cutting through a cluster of freshmen who looked way too young to be doing the kind of pelvic thrusts they were attempting.Where were the chaperones when you needed them? Then I saw where he was leading me and came to a screeching halt."No," I said, not budging when he tugged my hand."Come on, it's going to be great.''"You're taking me to Jesse and Ralf.
