13
An explosion ripped up the stairs. The wind smashed us down like toys. The door had blown. I
scrambled on all fours trying to get away, just get away. Zachary got to his feet, dragging me up by one
arm. We ran.
There was a howling from behind us, out of sight. The wind roared up behind us. My hair streamed over
my face, blinding me. Zachary's hand grabbed mine and held on. The walls were smooth, the stairs slick
stone, there was nothing to hold on to. We flattened ourselves against the stairs and hung onto each
other.
"Anita." Jean-Claude's velvet voice whispered. "Anita." I fought to look up into the wind, blinking to see.
There was nothing there. "Anita." The wind was calling my name. "Anita." Something glimmered, blue
fire. Two points of blue flame, hung on the wind. Eyes - were those Jean-Claude's eyes? Was he dead?
The blue flames began to float downward. The wind didn't touch them. I screamed, "Zachary!" But the
sound was swallowed in the roar of the wind. Did he see it, too, or was I going crazy?



--------------------------------------- 56

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
The blue flames came lower and lower, and suddenly I didn't want it to touch me, just as suddenly I
knew that was what it was going to do. Something told me that that would be a very bad thing.
I tore loose from Zachary. He screamed something at me, but the wind roared and screeched between
the narrow walls like a roller coaster gone mad. There was no other sound. I started to crawl up the
stairs, wind beating against me, trying to crush me down. There was one other sound, Jean-Claude's
voice in my head. "Forgive me."
The blue lights were suddenly in front of my face. I flattened myself against a wall, hitting at the fire. My
hands passed through the burning. It wasn't there.
I screamed, "Leave me alone!"
The fire melted through my hands like they weren't there, and into my eyes. The world was blue glass,
silent, nothing, blue ice. A whisper: "Run, run." I was sitting on the stairs again, blinking into the wind.
Zachary was staring at me.
The wind stopped like someone had turned a switch. The silence was deafening. My breath was coming
in short gasps. I had no pulse. I couldn't feel my heartbeat. All I could hear was my breathing, too loud,
too shallow. I finally knew what they meant by breathless with fear.
Zachary's voice was hoarse and too loud in the silence. I think he was whispering, but it came out like a
shout. "Your eyes, they glowed blue!"
I whispered, "Hush, shhh." I didn't understand why, but someone must not hear what he had just said,
must not know what had happened. My life depended on it. There was no more whispering in my head,
but the last bit of advice had been good. Run. Running sounded very good.
The silence was dangerous. It meant the fight was over, and the winner could turn its attention to other
things. I did not want to be one of those things.
I stood and offered a hand to Zachary. He looked puzzled but took it, standing. I pulled him up the steps
and started running. I had to get away, had to, or I would die in this place, tonight, now. I knew that with
a surety that left no room for questions, no time for hesitation. I was running for my life. I would die, if
Nikolaos saw me now. I would die.
And I would never know why.
Either Zachary felt the panic too, or he thought I knew something he didn't, because he ran with me.
When one of us stumbled, the other pulled him, or her, to their feet, and we ran. We ran until acid burned
the muscles in my legs, and my chest squeezed into a hard ache for lack of air.
This was why I jogged, so I could run like hell when something was chasing me. Thinner thighs was not
incentive enough. But this was, running when you had to, running for your life. The silence was heavy,
almost touchable. It seemed to flow up the stairs, as if searching for something. The silence chased us as
surely as the wind had.
The trouble with running up stairs, if you've ever had a knee injury, is that you can't do it forever. Give
me a flat surface, and I can run for hours. Put me on an incline, and my knees give me fits. It started as an
ache, but it didn't take long to become a sharp, grinding pain. Each step began to scream up my leg, until
the entire leg pulsed with it.



--------------------------------------- 57

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
The knee began to pop as it moved, an audible sound. That was a bad sign. The knee was threatening to
go out on me. If it popped out of joint, I'd be crippled here on the stairs with the silence breathing around
me. Nikolaos would find me and kill me. Why was I so sure of that? No answer, but I knew it, knew it
with every pull of air. I didn't argue with the feeling.
I slowed and rested on the steps, stretching out the muscles in my legs. Refusing to gasp as the muscles
on my bad leg twitched. I would stretch it out and feel better. The pain wouldn't go away, I'd abused it
too much for that, but I would be able to walk without the knee betraying me.
Zachary collapsed on the stairs, obviously not a jogger. His muscles would tighten up if he didn't keep
moving. Maybe he knew that. Maybe he didn't care.
I stretched my arms against the wall until my shoulders stretched out. Just something familiar to do while
I waited for the knee to calm down. Something to do, while I listened for - what? Something heavy and
sliding, something ancient, long dead.
Sounds from above, higher up the stairs. I froze pressed against the wall, palms flat against the cool
stone. What now? What more? Surely, to God, it would be dawn soon.
Zachary stood and turned to face up the stairs. I stood with my back to the wall, so I could see up as
well as down. I didn't want something sneaking up on me from below while I was looking upstairs. I
wanted my gun. It was locked in my trunk, where it was doing me a hell of a lot of good.
We were standing just below a landing, a turn in the stairs. There have been times when I wished I could
see around corners. This was one of them. The scrape of cloth against stone, the rub of shoes.
The man who walked around the corner was human, surprise, surprise. His neck was even unmarked.
Cotton-white hair was shaved close to his head. The muscles in his neck bulged. His biceps were bigger
around than my waist. My waist is kinda small, but his arms were still, ah, impressive. He was at least
six-three, and there wasn't enough fat on him to grease a cake pan.
His eyes were the crystalline paleness of January skies, a distant, icy, blue. He was also the first
bodybuilder I'd ever seen who didn't have a tan. All that rippling muscle was done in white, like Moby
Dick. A black mesh tank top showed off every inch of his massive chest. Black jogging shorts flared
around the swell of his legs. He had had to cut them up the sides to slip them over the rock bulge of his
thighs.
I whispered, "Jesus, how much do you bench press?"
He smiled, close-lipped. He spoke with the barest movement of lips, never giving a glimpse of his
incisors. "Four hundred."
I gave a low whistle. And said what he wanted me to say: "Impressive."
He smiled, careful not to show teeth. He was trying to play the vampire. Such a careful act being wasted
on me. Should I tell him that he screamed human? Naw, he might break me over his thigh like kindling.
"This is Winter," Zachary said. The name was too perfect to be real, like a 1940s movie star.
"What is happening?" he asked.



--------------------------------------- 58

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
"Our master and Jean-Claude are fighting," Zachary said.
He drew a deep, sighing breath. His eyes widened just a bit. "Jean-Claude?" He made it sound like a
question.
Zachary nodded and smiled. "Yes, he's been holding out."
"Who are you?" he asked.
I hesitated; Zachary shrugged. "Anita Blake."
He smiled then, flashing nice normal teeth at last. "You're The Executioner?"
"Yes."
He laughed. The sound echoed between the stone walls. The silence seemed to tighten around us. The
laughter stopped abruptly, a dew of sweat on his lip. Winter felt it and feared it. His voice came low,
almost a whisper, as if he was afraid of being overheard. "You aren't big enough to be The Executioner."
I shrugged. "It disappoints me, too, sometimes."
He smiled, almost laughed again, but swallowed it. His eyes were shiny.
"Let's all get out of here," Zachary said.
I was with him.
"I was sent to check on Nikolaos," Winter said.
The silence pulsed with the name. A bead of sweat dripped down his face. Important safety tip: never
say the name of an angry master vampire when they are within "hearing" distance.
"She can take care of herself," Zachary whispered, but the sound echoed anyway.
"Nooo," I said.
Zachary glared at me and I shrugged. Sometimes I just can't help myself.
Winter stared at me, face as impersonal as carved marble; only his eyes trembled. Mr. Macho. "Come,"
he said. He turned without waiting to see if we would follow. We followed.
I would have followed him anywhere as long as he went upstairs. All I knew was that nothing, absolutely
nothing, could get me back down those stairs. Not willingly. Of course, there are always other options. I
glanced up at Winter's broad back. Yeah, if you don't want to do it willingly, there are always other
options.
 
 



--------------------------------------- 59

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
