31
It was nearly three by the time I walked up the stairs to my apartment. All the bruises were aching. My
knees, feet, and lower back were a nearly burning grind of pain from the high heels. I wanted a long, hot
shower and bed. Maybe if I were lucky I could actually get eight uninterrupted hours of sleep. Of course,
I wouldn't bet on it.
I got my keys in one hand and gun in the other. I held the gun at my side, just in case a neighbor should
open his or her door unexpectedly. Nothing to fear, folks, just your friendly neighborhood animator.
Right.
For the first time in far too long my door was just the way I left it: locked. Thank you, God. I was not in
the mood to play cops and robbers this very early morning.
I kicked off my shoes just inside the door, then stumbled to the bedroom. The message light was
blinking on my answering machine. I laid my gun on the bed, hit the play button, and started undressing.
"Hi, Anita, this is Ronnie. I got a meeting set up for tomorrow with the guy from HAV. My office, eleven
o'clock. If the time is bad, leave a message on my machine, and I'll get back to you. Be careful."
Click, whirr, and Edward's voice came out of the machine. "The clock is ticking, Anita." Click.



--------------------------------------- 137

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
Damn. "You like your little games, don't you, you son of a bitch?" I was getting grumpy, and I didn't
know what I was going to do about Edward. Or Nikolaos, or Zachary, or Valentine, or Aubrey. I did
know I wanted a shower. I could start there. Maybe I'd have a brilliant idea while I was scrubbing goat
blood off my skin.
I locked the door to the bathroom and laid my gun on the top of the toilet. I was beginning to get a little
paranoid. Or maybe realistic was a better word.
I turned the water on until it steamed, then stepped into it. I was no closer to solving the vampire
murders now than I had been twenty-four hours ago.
Even if I solved the case, I still had problems. Aubrey and Valentine were going to kill me once
Nikolaos removed her protection from me. Peachy. I wasn't even sure that Nikolaos herself didn't have
ideas in that direction. Now, Zachary, he was killing people to feed his voodoo charm. I had heard of
charms that demanded human sacrifice. Charms that gave you a whole lot less than immortality. Wealth,
power, sex - the age-old wants. It was very specific blood - children, or virgins, or preadolescent boys,
or little old ladies with blue hair and one wooden leg. All right, not that specific, but there had to be a
pattern to it. A string of disappearances with similar victims. If Zachary had been simply leaving the
bodies to be found, the newspapers would have picked up on it by now. Maybe.
He had to be stopped. If I hadn't interfered tonight, he would have been stopped. No good deed goes
unpunished.
I leaned palms against the bathroom tile, letting the water wash down my back in nearly scalding rivulets.
Okay, I had to kill Valentine before he killed me. I had a warrant for his death. It had never been
revoked. Of course, I had to find him first.
Aubrey was dangerous, but at least he was out of the way until Nikolaos let him out of his trapped
coffin.
I could just turn Zachary over to the police. Dolph would listen to me, but I didn't have a shred of proof.
Hell, the magic was even something I'd never heard of. If I couldn't understand what Zachary was, how
was I going to explain it to the police?
Nikolaos. Would she let me live if I solved the case? Or not? I didn't know.
Edward was coming to get me tomorrow evening. I either gave him Nikolaos or he took a piece of my
hide. Knowing Edward, it would be a painful piece to lose. Maybe I could just give him the vampire. Just
tell him what he wanted to know. And he fails to kill her, and she comes and gets me. The one thing I
wanted to avoid, almost more than anything else, was Nikolaos coming to get me.
I dried off, ran a brush through my hair, and had to get something to eat. I tried to tell myself I was too
tired to eat. My stomach didn't believe me.
It was four before I fell into bed. My cross was safely around my neck. The gun in its holster behind the
head board. And, just for pure panic's sake, I slipped a knife between the mattress and box springs. I'd
never get to it in time to do any good, but . . . Well, you never know.
I dreamed about Jean-Claude again. He was sitting at a table eating blackberries.
"Vampires don't eat solid food," I said.



--------------------------------------- 138

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
"Exactly." He smiled and pushed the bowl of fruit towards me.
"I hate blackberries," I said.
"They were always my favorite. I hadn't tasted them in centuries." His face looked wistful.
I picked up the bowl. It was cool, almost cold. The blackberries were floating in blood. The bowl fell
from my hands, slow, spilling blood on the table, more than it could ever have held. Blood dripped down
the tabletop, onto the floor.
Jean-Claude stared at me over the bleeding table. His words came like a warm wind. "Nikolaos will kill
us both. We must strike first, ma petite."
"What's this 'we' crap?"
He cupped pale hands in the flowing blood and held them out to me, like a cup. Blood dripped out from
between his fingers. "Drink. It will make you strong."
I woke staring up into the darkness. "Damn you, Jean-Claude," I whispered. "What have you done to
me?"
There was no answer from the dark, empty room. Thank goodness for small favors. The clock read
six-oh-three a.m. I rolled over and snuggled back into the covers. The whir of air conditioning couldn't
hide the sounds of one of my neighbors running water. I switched on the radio. Mozart's piano concerto
in E flat filled the darkened room. It was really too lively to sleep to, but I wanted noise. My choice of
noise.
I don't know if it was Mozart or I was just too tired; whatever, I went back to sleep. If I dreamed, I
didn't remember it.
 
 
