10
I had to check the locked door. Rattle it, poke at the lock, as if I knew how to pick locks. See if any
bars were loose, though I could never have squeezed through the small window anyway.
I checked the door because I could not resist it. It was the same urge that made you rattle your trunk
after you locked your keys inside.
I have been on the wrong side of a lot of locked doors. Not a one of them had just opened for me, but
there was always a first time. Yeah, I should live so long. Scratch that; bad phrase.
A sound brought me back to the cell and its seeping, damp walls. A rat scurried against the far wall.
Another peered around the edge of the steps, whiskers twitching. I guess you can't have a dungeon
without rats, but I would have been willing to give it a try.
Something else pattered around the edge of the steps; in the torchlight I thought it was a dog. It wasn't.
A rat the size of a German shepherd sat up on its sleek black haunches. It stared at me, huge paws
tucked close to its furry chest. It cocked one large, black button eye at me. Lips drew back from
yellowed teeth. The incisors were five inches long, blunt-edged daggers.
I yelled, "Jean-Claude!"
The air filled with high-pitched squeals, echoing, as if they were running up a tunnel. I stepped to the far
edge of the stairs. And I saw it. A tunnel cut into the wall, almost man-high. Rats poured out of the tunnel
in a thick, furry wave, squealing and biting. They flowed out and began to cover the floor.



--------------------------------------- 39

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
"Jean-Claude!" I beat on the door, jerked at the bars, everything I had done before. It was useless. I
wasn't getting out. I kicked the door and screamed, "Dammit!" The sound echoed against the stone walls
and almost drowned out the sound of thousands of scrambling claws.
"They will not come for you until we are finished."
I froze, hands still on the door. I turned, slowly. The voice had come from inside the cell. The floor
writhed and twisted with furry little bodies. High-pitched squeals, the thick brush of fur, the clatter of
thousands of tiny claws filled the room. Thousands of them, thousands.
Four giant rats sat like mountains in the writhing furry tide. One of them stared at me with black button
eyes. There was nothing ratlike in the stare. I had never seen wererats before, but I was betting that I
was seeing them now.
One figure stood, legs half-bent. It was man-size, with a narrow, ratlike face. A huge naked tail curved
around its bent legs like thick fleshy rope. It - no, he, definitely he - extended a clawed hand. "Come
down and join us, human." The voice sounded thick, almost furry, with an edge of whine to it. Each word
precise and a little wrong. Rats' lips are not made for talking.
I was not coming down the steps. No way. I could taste my heart in my throat. I knew a man who
survived a werewolf attack, nearly died, and didn't become a werewolf. I know another man who was
barely scratched and became a weretiger. Odds were, if I was so much as scratched, in a month's time I
would be playing fur-face, complete with black button eyes and yellowish fangs. Dear God.
"Come down, human. Come down and play."
I swallowed hard. It felt like I was trying to swallow my heart. "I don't think so."
It gave a hissing laugh. "We could come up and fetch you." He strode through the lesser rats, and they
parted for him frantically, leaping on top of each other to avoid his touch. He stood at the edge of the
steps, looking up at me. His fur was almost a honey-brown color, streaked with blond. "If we force you
off the steps, you won't like it much."
I swallowed hard. I believed him. I went for my knife and found the sheath empty. Of course, the
vampires had taken it. Dammit.
"Come down, human, come down and play."
"If you want me, you're going to have to come get me."
He curled his tail through his hands, stroking it. One clawed hand ran through the fur of his belly, and
stroked lower. I stared very hard at his face, and he laughed at me.
"Fetch her."
Two of the dog-size rats moved towards the stairs. A small rat squealed and rolled under their feet. It
gave a high, piteous shriek, then nothing. It twitched until the other rats covered it. Tiny bones snapped.
Nothing would go to waste.
I pressed against the door, as if I could sink through it. The two rats crept up the steps, sleek well-fed
animals. But there was no animal in the eyes. Whatever was there was human, intelligent.



--------------------------------------- 40

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
"Wait, wait."
The rats hesitated.
The ratman said, "Yes?"
I swallowed audibly. "What do you want?"
"Nikolaos asked that we entertain you while you wait."
"That doesn't answer my question. What do you want me to do? What do you want?"
Lips curled back from yellowed teeth. It looked like a snarl, but I think it was a smile. "Come down to
us, human. Touch us, let us touch you. Let us teach you the joys of fur and teeth." He rubbed claws
through the fur of his thighs. It drew my attention to him, between his legs. I looked away, and heat
rushed up my skin. I was blushing. Dammit!
My voice came out almost steady. "Is that supposed to be impressive?" I asked.
He froze for an instant, then snarled, "Get her down here!"
Great, Anita, antagonize him. Imply that his equipment is a little undersized.
His hissing laugh ran up my skin in cold waves. "We are going to have fun tonight. I can tell."
The giant rats came up the steps, muscles working under fur, whiskers thick as wire, wriggling furiously.
I pressed my back against the door and began to slide down the wood. "Please, please don't." My voice
sounded high and frightened, and I hated it.
"We've broken you so soon; how very sad," the ratman said.
The two giant rats were almost on me. I braced my back against the door, knees tucked up, heels
planted, the rest of the foot slightly raised. A claw touched my leg, I flinched, but I waited. It had to be
right. Please, God, don't let them draw blood. Whiskers scraped along my face, the weight of fur on top
of me.
I kicked out, both feet hitting solidly in the rat. It raised onto its hind legs and toppled backwards. It
tittered, tail lashing. I threw myself forward and smashed it in the chest. The rat tumbled over the edge.
The second rat crouched, making a sound low in its throat. I watched its muscles bunch, and I went
down to one knee and braced. If it leaped on me standing, I'd go over the edge. I was only inches from
the drop.
It leaped. I dropped flat to the floor and rolled. I shoved feet and one hand into the warmth of its body
and helped it along. The rat plummeted over me and out of sight. I heard the frightened shrieks as it fell.
The sound was a thick "thumpth." Satisfying. I doubted either of them were dead. But it was the best I
could do.
I stood, putting my back to the door again. The ratman wasn't smiling anymore. I smiled at him sweetly,
my best angelic smile. He didn't seem impressed.



--------------------------------------- 41

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
He made a motion like parting air, smooth. The lesser rats flowed forward with his hand. A creeping
brown tide of furry little bodies began to boil up the steps.
I might be able to get a few of them, but not all of them. If he wanted them to, they'd eat me alive, one
tiny crimson bite at a time.
Rats flowed around my feet, scrambling and arguing. Tiny bodies bumped against my boots. One
stretched itself thin, reaching up to grab the edge of my boot. I kicked it off. It fell squealing over the
edge.
The giant rats had dragged one of their injured friends off to one side. The rat wasn't moving. The other I
had thrown off was limping.
A rat leaped upward, claws hooked in my blouse. It hung there, claws trapped in the cloth. I could feel
its weight over my breast. I grabbed it around its middle. Teeth sank into my hand until they met, grinding
skin, missing bone. I screamed, jerking the rat away from me. It dangled from my hand like an obscene
earring. Blood ran down its fur. Another rat leaped on my blouse.
The ratman was smiling.
A rat was climbing for my face. I grabbed it by the tail and pulled it away. I yelled, "Are you afraid to
come yourself? Are you afraid of me?" My voice was thin with panic, but I said it. "Your friends are
injured doing something you're afraid to do. Is that it? Is it?"
The giant rats were staring from me to the ratman. He glanced at them. "I am not afraid of a human."
"Then come up, take me yourself, if you can." The rat on my hand dropped away in a spout of blood.
The skin between thumb and forefinger was ripped apart.
The lesser rats hesitated, staring wildly around. One was halfway up my jeans. It dropped to the floor.
"I am not afraid."
"Prove it." My voice sounded a little steadier, maybe about nine years old instead of five.
The giant rats were staring at him, intent, judging, waiting. He made that same cutting-air motion in
reverse. The rats squeaked and stood on hind legs staring around, as if they couldn't believe it, but they
began to pour down the stairs the way they had come.
I leaned into the door, knees weak, cradling the bitten hand against my chest. The ratman began to
creep up the stairs. He moved easily on the balls of his elongated feet, strong clawed toes digging into the
stone.
Lycanthropes are stronger and faster than humans. No mind tricks, no sleight of hand, they are just
better. I would not be able to surprise the wererat, as I had the first. I doubted he would grow angry
enough to be stupid, but one could always hope. I was hurt, unarmed, and outmatched. If I couldn't get
him to make a mistake, I was in deep shit.
A long, pink tongue curved over his teeth. "Fresh blood," he said. He drew in a loud breath of air. "You
stink of fear, human. Blood and fear, smells like dinner to me." The tongue flicked out and he laughed at



--------------------------------------- 42

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
me.
I slid my uninjured hand behind my back, as if reaching for something. "Come closer, ratman, and we'll
see how you like silver."
The ratman hesitated, frozen, half-crouched on the top step. "You have no silver."
"Want to bet your life on it?"
His clawed hands clutched each other. One of the large rats squeaked something. He snarled down at it.
"I am not afraid!"
If they egged him on, my bluff wasn't going to work. "You saw what I did to your friends. That was
without a weapon." My voice sounded low and sure of itself. Good for me.
He eyed me out of one large patent-leather eye. His fur glistened in the torchlight as if freshly washed.
He gave a small jump and was on the landing, just out of reach.
"I've never seen a blond rat before," I said. Anything to fill the silence, anything to keep him from taking
that one last step. Surely Jean-Claude would come back for me soon. I laughed then, abrupt and
half-choked.
The ratman froze, staring at me. "Why are you laughing?" His voice held just a hint of unease. Good.
"I was hoping that the vampires would come for me soon and save me. You've got to admit that's
funny."
He didn't seem to think it was funny. A lot of people don't get my jokes. If I was less secure, I'd think
my jokes weren't funny. Naw.
I moved my hand behind my back, still pretending that there was a knife in it. One of the giant rats
squealed, and even to me it sounded derisive. He would never live it down if I bluffed him. I might not
live it down if I didn't.
Most people, when confronted with a wererat, freeze or panic. I'd had time to get used to the idea. I
wasn't going to fade away if he touched me. There was one possible solution where I could save myself.
If I was wrong, he was going to kill me. My stomach turned a sharp flip-flop, and I had to swallow hard.
Better dead than furry. If he attacked me, I'd just as soon he killed me. Rats were not my top choice for
being a lycanthrope. If your luck was bad, the smallest scratch could infect you.
If I was quick and lucky, I could go to a hospital and be treated. Sort of like rabies. Of course
sometimes the inoculations worked, and sometimes they gave you lycanthropy.
He wrapped his long, naked tail through his clawed hands. "You ever been had by a were?"
I wasn't sure if he was talking sex or as a meal. Neither sounded pleasant. He was going to work up to
it, get himself brave, then he'd come for me, when he was ready. I wanted him to come when I was
ready.
I chose sex and said, "You haven't got what it takes, ratman."



--------------------------------------- 43

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
He stiffened, hand sliding down his body, claws combing fur. "We'll see who has what, human."
"Is this the only way you get any sex, forcing yourself on someone? Are you as ugly in human form as
you are right now?"
He hissed at me, mouth wide, teeth bared. A sound rose out of his body, deep and high, a whining
growl. I'd never heard a sound like it before. It rose up and down and filled the room with violent, hissing
echoes. His shoulders crouched.
I held my breath. I had pissed him off. Now we would see if my plan worked, or if he killed me. He
leaped forward. I dropped to the floor, but he was ready for it. Incredible speed and he was on me,
snarling, claws reaching, screaming in my face.
I bunched my legs against my chest, or he would have been on top of me. He put one claw-hand on my
knees and began to push. I tucked arms over my knees, fighting him. It was like fighting steel that moved.
He screamed again, high and hissing, spittle raining on me. He went up on his knees to get a better angle
at forcing my legs down. I kicked outward, everything I had. He saw it coming and tried to move back,
but both feet hit him square between the legs. The impact lifted him off his knees, and he collapsed to the
landing, claws scrambling on the stone. He was making a high, whining, breathy sound. He couldn't seem
to get enough air.
A second ratman came scrambling through the tunnel, and rats ran everywhere, squeaking and squealing.
I just sat there on the landing as far away from the writhing blond ratman as I could get. I stared at the
new ratman, feeling tired and angry.
Dammit, it should have worked. The bad guys weren't allowed reinforcements when I was already
outnumbered. This one's fur was black, jet absolute black. He wore a pair of jean cutoffs over his slightly
bent legs. He motioned, smooth and out from his body.
I swallowed my heart, pulse thudding. My skin crawled with the memory of small bodies sliding over
me. My hand throbbed where the rat had bitten me. They'd tear me apart. "Jean-Claude!"
The rats moved, a flowing brownish tide, away from the stairs. The rats ran squeaking and shrilling into
the tunnel. All I could do was stare.
The giant rats hissed at him, gesturing with noses and paws at the fallen giant rat. "She was defending
herself. What were you doing?" The ratman's voice was low and deep, slurred only around the edges. If I
had closed my eyes, I might have said it was human.
I didn't close my eyes. The giant rats left, crouch-dragging their still unconscious friend. He wasn't dead,
but he was hurt. One giant rat glanced up at me as the others vanished into the tunnel. Its empty black
eye glared at me, promised me painful things if we ever met again.
The blond ratman had stopped writhing and was lying very still, panting, hands cradling himself. The new
ratman said, "I told you never to come here."
The first ratman struggled to sit up. The movement seemed to hurt. "The master called and I obeyed."
"I am your king. You obey me." The black-furred rat began to stride up the stairs, tail lashing angrily,
almost catlike.



--------------------------------------- 44

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
I stood and put the cell door at my back for the umpteenth time that night.
The hurt ratman said, "You are only our king until you die. If you stand against the master, that will be
soon. She is powerful, more powerful than you." His voice still sounded weak, thready, but he was
recovering. Anger will do that to you.
The rat king leaped, a black blur in motion. He jerked the ratman off his feet, holding him with slightly
bent elbows, feet dangling off the ground. He held him close to his face. "I am your king, and you will
obey me or I will kill you." Clawed hands dug into the blond ratman's throat, until he scrambled for air.
The rat king tossed the ratman down the stairs. He fell tumbling and nearly boneless.
He glared up from the bottom in a painful, gasping heap. The hatred in his eyes would have lit a bonfire.
"Are you all right?" the new ratman asked.
It took me a minute to realize he was speaking to me. I nodded. Apparently I was being rescued, not
that I had need of it. Of course not. "Thank you."
"I did not come to save you," he said. "I have forbidden my people to hunt for the vampire. That is why I
came."
"Well, I know where I rate, somewhere above a flea. Thank you anyway. Whatever your motives."
He nodded. "You are welcome."
I noticed a burn scar on his left forearm. It was the shape of a crude crown. Someone had branded him.
"Wouldn't it be easier just to carry around a crown and scepter?"
He glanced down at his arm, then gave that rat smile, teeth bare. "This leaves my hands free."
I looked up into his eyes to see if he was teasing me, and I couldn't tell. You try reading rat faces.
"What do the vampires want with you?" he asked.
"They want me to work for them."
"Do it. They'll hurt you if you don't."
"Like they'll hurt you if you keep the rats away?"
He shrugged, an awkward motion. "Nikolaos thinks she is queen of the rats because that is her animal to
call. We are not merely rats, but men, and we have a choice. I have a choice."
"Do what she wants, and she won't hurt you," I said.
Again that smile. "I give good advice. I do not always take it."
"Me either," I said.
He stared at me out of one black eye, then turned towards the door. "They are coming."



--------------------------------------- 45

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
I knew who "they" were. The party was over. The vampires were coming. The rat king sprang down the
stairs and scooped up the fallen ratman. He tossed him over his shoulder as if it were no effort, then he
was gone, running for the tunnel, fast, fast as a mouse surprised by the kitchen light. A dark blur.
I heard heels clicking down the hallway, and I stepped away from the door. It opened, and Theresa
stood on the landing. She stared down at me and the empty room, hands on hips, mouth squeezed tight.
"Where are they?"
I held up my wounded hand. "They did their part, then they left."
"They weren't supposed to leave," she said. Theresa made an exasperated sound low in her throat. "It
was that rat king of theirs, wasn't it?"
I shrugged. "They left; I don't know why."
"So calm, so unafraid. Didn't the rats frighten you?"
I shrugged again. When something works, stay with it.
"They were not supposed to draw blood." She stared at me. "Are you going to shape shift next full
moon?" Her voice held a hint of curiosity. Curiosity killed the vampire. One could always hope.
"No," I said, and I left it at that. No explanation. If she really wanted one, she could just beat me against
the wall until I told her what she wanted to hear. She wouldn't even break a sweat. Of course, Aubrey
was being punished for hurting me.
Her eyes narrowed as she studied me. "The rats were supposed to frighten you, animator. They don't
seem to have done their job."
"Maybe I don't frighten that easily." I met her eyes without any effort. They were just eyes.
Theresa grinned at me suddenly, flashing fang. "Nikolaos will find something that frightens you, animator.
For fear is power." She whispered the last as if afraid to say it too loud.
What did vampires fear? Did visions of sharpened stakes and garlic haunt them, or were there worse
things? How do you frighten the dead?
"Walk in front of me, animator. Go meet your master."
"Isn't Nikolaos your master as well, Theresa?"
She stared at me, face blank, as if the laughter had been an illusion. Her eyes were cold and dark. The
rats' eyes had held more personality. "Before the night is out, animator, Nikolaos will be everyone's
master."
I shook my head. "I don't think so."
"Jean-Claude's power has made you foolish."
"No," I said, "it isn't that."



--------------------------------------- 46

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
"Then what, mortal?"
"I would rather die than be a vampire's flunky."
Theresa never blinked, only nodded, very slowly. "You may get your wish."
The hair at the back of my neck crawled. I could meet her gaze, but evil has a certain feel to it. A
neck-ruffling, throat-tightening feeling that tightens your gut. I have felt it around humans as well. You
don't have to be undead to be evil. But it helps.
I walked in front of her. Theresa's boots clicked sharp echoes from the hallway. Maybe it was only my
fear talking, but I felt her staring at me, like an ice cube sliding down my spine.
 
 
