32
The alarm shrieked through my sleep. It sounded like a car alarm, hideously loud. I smashed my palm on
the buttons. Mercifully, it shut off. I blinked at the clock through half-slit eyes. Nine a.m. Damn. I had
forgotten to unset the alarm. I had time to get dressed and make church. I did not want to get up. I did
not want to go to church. Surely, God would forgive me just this once.
Of course, I did need all the help I could get right now. Maybe I'd even have a revelation, and
everything would fall into place. Don't laugh; it had happened before. Divine aid is not something I rely
on, but every once in a while I think better at church.
When the world is full of vampires and bad guys, and a blessed cross may be all that stands between
you and death, it puts church in a different light. So to speak.
I crawled out of bed, groaning. The phone rang. I sat on the edge of the bed, waiting for the answering



--------------------------------------- 139

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
machine to pick up. It did. "Anita, this is Sergeant Storr. We got another vampire murder."
I picked up the receiver. "Hi, Dolph."
"Good. Glad I caught you before church."
"Is it another dead vampire?"
"Mmhuh."
"Just like the others?" I asked.
"Seems to be. Need you to come down and take a look."
I nodded, realized he couldn't see it, and said, "Sure, when?"
"Right now."
I sighed. So much for church. They couldn't hold the body until noon, or after, just for little ol' me. "Give
me the location. Wait, let me get a pen that works." I kept a notepad by the bed, but the pen had died
without my knowing it. "Okay, shoot."
The location was only about a block from Circus of the Damned. "That's on the fringe of the District.
None of the other murders have been that far away from the Riverfront."
"True," he said.
"What else is different about this one?"
"You'll see it when you get here."
Mr. Information. "Fine, I'll be there in half an hour."
"See you then." The phone went dead.
"Well, good morning to you to, Dolph," I said to the receiver. Maybe he wasn't a morning person either.
My hands were healing. I had taken the Band-Aids off last night because they were covered with goat
blood. The scrapes were scabbing nicely, so I didn't bother with more Band-Aids.
One fat bandage covered the knife wound on my arm. I couldn't hurt my left arm anymore. I had run out
of room. The bite mark on my neck was beginning to bruise. It looked like the world's worst hicky. If
Zerbrowski saw it, I would never live it down. I put a Band-Aid on it. Now it looked like I was covering
a vampire bite. Damn. I left it. Let people wonder. None of their business anyway.
I put a red polo shirt on, tucked into jeans. My Nikes, and a shoulder harness for my gun, and I was all
set. My shoulder rig has a little pouch for extra ammo. I put fresh clips in it. Twenty-six bullets. Watch
out, bad guys. Truth was, most firefights were finished before the first eight shots were gone. But there
was always a first time.
I carried a bright yellow windbreaker over my arm. I'd put it on just in case the gun started making



--------------------------------------- 140

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
people nervous. I would be working with the police. They'd have their guns out in plain sight. Why
couldn't I? Besides, I was tired of games. Let the bastards know I was armed and willing.
 
There are always too many people at a murder scene. Not the gawkers, the people who come to watch;
you expect that. There is always something fascinating about someone else's death. But the place always
swarms with police, mostly detectives with a sprinkling of uniforms. So many cops for one little murder.
There was even a news van, with a huge satellite antenna sticking out of its back like a giant ray gun from
some 1940s science fiction movie. There would be more news vans, I was betting on that. I don't know
how the police kept it quiet this long.
Vampire murders, gee whiz, sensationalism at its best. You don't even have to add anything to make it
bizarre.
I kept the crowd between myself and the cameraman. A reporter with short blond hair and a stylish
business suit was shoving a microphone in Dolph's face. As long as I stayed near the gruesome remains, I
was safe. They might get me on film, but they wouldn't be able to show it on television. Good taste and
all, you know.
I had a little plastic-enclosed card, complete with picture, that gave me access to police areas. I always
felt like a junior G-man when I clipped it to my collar.
I was stopped at the yellow police banner by a vigilant uniform. He stared at my I. D. for several
seconds, as if trying to decide whether I was kosher or not. Would he let me through the line, or would
he call a detective over first?
I stood, hands at my sides, trying to look harmless. I'm actually very good at that. I can look downright
cute. The uniform raised the tape and let me through. I resisted an urge to say, "Atta boy." I did say,
"Thank you."
The body lay near a lamp pole. Legs were spreadeagled. One arm twisted under the body, probably
broken. The center of the back was missing, as if someone had shoved a hand through the body and just
scooped out the center. The heart would be gone, just like all the others.
Detective Clive Perry was standing by the body. He was a tall, slender, black man, and most recent
member of the spook squad. He always seemed so soft-spoken and pleasant. I could never imagine
Perry doing anything rude enough to piss someone off, but you didn't get assigned to the squad without a
reason.
He looked up from his notebook. "Hi, Ms. Blake."
"Hello, Detective Perry."
He smiled. "Sergeant Storr said you'd be coming down."
"Is everyone else finished with the body?"
He nodded. "It's all yours."



--------------------------------------- 141

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
A dark brown puddle of blood spread out from under the body. I knelt beside it. The blood had
congealed to a tacky, gluelike consistency. Rigor mortis had come and gone, if there had been rigor
mortis. Vampires didn't always react to "death" the way a human body did. It made judging the time of
death harder. But that was the coroner's job, not mine.
The bright summer sun pressed down over the body. From the shape and the black pants suit, I was
betting it was female. It was sort of hard to tell, lying on its stomach, chest caved in, and the head
missing. The spine showed white and glistening. Blood had poured out of the neck like a broken bottle of
red wine. The skin was torn, twisted. It looked like somebody had ripped the freaking head off.
I swallowed very hard. I hadn't thrown up on a murder victim in months. I stood up and put a little
distance between myself and the body.
Could this have been done by a human being? No; maybe. Hell. If it was a human being, then they were
trying very hard to make it look otherwise. No matter what a surface look revealed, the coroner always
found knife marks on the body. The question was, did the knife marks come before or after death? Was
it a human trying to look like a monster, or a monster trying to look like a human?
"Where's the head?" I asked.
"You sure you feel all right?"
I looked up at him. Did I look pale? "I'll be fine." Me, big, tough vampire slayer, no throw up at the sight
of decapitated heads. Right.
Perry raised his eyebrows but was too polite to push the issue. He led me about eight feet down the
sidewalk. Someone had thrown a plastic cover over the head. A second smaller pool of congealing
blood oozed out from under the plastic.
Perry bent over and grasped the plastic. "You ready?"
I nodded, not trusting my voice. He lifted the plastic, like a curtain backdrop to what lay on the
sidewalk.
Long, black hair flowed around a pale face. The hair was matted and sticky with blood. The face had
been attractive but no more. The features were slack, almost doll-like in their unreality. My eyes saw it,
but it took my brain a few seconds to register. "Shit!"
"What is it?"
I stood up, fast, and took two steps out into the street. Perry came to stand beside me. "Are you all
right?"
I glanced back at the plastic with its grisly little lump. Was I all right? Good question. I could identify this
body.
It was Theresa.
 
 



--------------------------------------- 142

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
