4
Our table was nearly bumping up against the stage. The room was full of liquor and laughter, and a few
faked screams as the vampire waiters moved around the tables. There was an undercurrent of fear. That
peculiar terror that you get on roller coasters and at horror movies. Safe terror.

The lights went out. Screams echoed through the room, high and shrill. Real fear for an instant.
Jean-Claude's voice came out of the darkness. "Welcome to Guilty Pleasures. We are here to serve you.
To make your most evil thought come true."
His voice was silken whispers in the small hours of night. Damn, he was good.
"Have you ever wondered what it would be like to feel my breath upon your skin? My lips along your
neck. The hard brush of teeth. The sweet, sharp pain of fangs. Your heart beating frantically against my
chest. Your blood flowing into my veins. Sharing yourself. Giving me life. Knowing that I truly could not
live without you, all of you."
Perhaps it was the intimacy of darkness; whatever, I felt as if his voice was speaking just for me, to me. I
was his chosen, his special one. No, that wasn't right. Every woman in the club felt the same. We were all
his chosen. And perhaps there was more truth in that than in anything else.
"Our first gentleman tonight shares your fantasy. He wanted to know how the sweetest of kisses would
feel. He has gone before you to tell you that it is wondrous." He let silence fill the darkness, until my own
heartbeat sounded loud. "Phillip is with us tonight."
Monica whispered, "Phillip!" A collective gasp ran through the audience, then a soft chanting began.
"Phillip, Phillip . . ." The sound rose around us in the dark like a prayer.
The lights began to come up like at the end of a movie. A figure stood in the center of the stage. A white
t-shirt hugged his upper body; not a muscleman, but well built. Not too much of a good thing. A black
leather jacket, tight jeans and boots completed the outfit. He could have walked off any street. His thick,
brown hair was long enough to sweep his shoulders.
Music drifted into the twilit silence. The man swayed to the sounds, hips rotating ever so slightly. He
began to slip out of leather jacket, moving almost in slow motion. The soft music seemed to have a pulse.
A pulse that his body moved with, swaying. The jacket slid to the stage. He stared out at the audience for
a minute letting us see what there was to see. Scars hugged the bend of each arm, until the skin had
formed white mounds of tissue.
I swallowed hard. I wasn't sure what was about to happen, but was betting I wasn't going to like it.
He swept back his long hair from his face with both hands. He swayed and strutted around the edge of
the stage. He stood near table, looking down at us. His neck looked like a junkie's.
I had to look away. All those neat little bite marks, neat little scars. I glanced up and found Catherine
staring at her lap. Monica leaning forward in her chair, lips half-parted.
He grabbed the t-shirt with strong hands and pulled. It peeled away from his chest, ripping. Screams
from the audience. A few of them called his name. He smiled. The smile was dazzling, brilliant
melt-in-your-mouth sexy.
There was scar tissue on his smooth, bare chest: white scars, pinkish scars, new scars, old scars. I just
sat staring with my mouth open.
Catherine whispered, "Dear God!"
"He's wonderful, isn't he?" Monica asked.
I glanced at her. Her flared collar had slipped, exposing two neat puncture wounds, fairly old, almost
scars. Sweet Jesus.
The music burst into a pulsing violence. He danced, swaying, gyrating, throwing the strength of his body
into every move. There a white mass of scars over his left collarbone, ragged and vicious. My stomach
tightened. A vampire had torn through his collarbone, ripped at him like a dog with a piece of meat. I
knew, because I had a similar scar. I had a lot of similar scars.
Dollar bills appeared in hands like mushrooms after a rain. Monica was waving her money like a flag. I
didn't want Phillip at our table. I had to lean into Monica to be heard over the noise.
"Monica, please, don't bring him over here."
Even as she turned to look at me, I knew it was too late. Phillip of the many scars was standing on the
stage, looking down at us. I stared up into his very human eyes.
I could see the pulse in Monica's throat. She licked her lips; her eyes were enormous. She stuffed the
money down the front of his pants.
Her hands traced his scars like nervous butterflies. She leaned her face close to his stomach and began
kissing his scars, leaving red lipstick prints behind. He knelt as she kissed him, forcing her mouth higher
and higher up his chest.
He knelt, and she pressed lips to his face. He brushed his hair back from his neck, as if he knew what
she wanted. She licked the newest bite scar, tongue small and pink, like a cat. I heard her breath go out
in a trembling sigh. She bit him, mouth locking over the wound. Phillip jerked with pain, or just surprise.
Her jaws tightened, her throat worked. She was sucking the wound.
I looked across the table at Catherine. She was staring at them, face blank with astonishment.
The crowd was going wild, screaming and waving money. Phillip pulled away from Monica and moved
on to another table. Monica slumped forward, head collapsing into her lap, arms limp at her side.
Had she fainted? I reached out to touch her shoulder and realized I didn't want to touch her. I gripped
her shoulder gently. She moved, turning her head to look at me. Her eyes held that lazy fullness that sex
gives. Her mouth looked pale with most of the lipstick worn away. She hadn't fainted; she was basking in
the afterglow.
I drew back from her, rubbing my hand against my jeans. My palms were sweating.
Phillip was back on the stage. He had stopped dancing. He was just standing there. Monica had left a
small round mark on his neck.
I felt the first stirrings of an old mind, flowing over the crowd. Catherine asked, "What's happening?"
"It's all right," Monica said. She was sitting upright in her chair, eyes still half-closed. She licked her lips
and stretched, hands over her head.
Catherine turned to me. "Anita, what is it?"

"Vampire," I said.
Fear flashed on her face, but it didn't last. I watched the fear fade under the weight of the vampire's
mind. She turned slowly to stare at Phillip as he waited on the stage. Catherine was in no danger. This
mass hypnosis was not personal, and not permanent.
The vampire wasn't as old as Jean-Claude, nor as good. I sat there feeling the press and flow of over a
hundred years of power, and it wasn't enough. I felt him move up through the tables. He had gone to a lot
of trouble to make sure the poor humans wouldn't see him come. He would simply appear in their midst,
like magic.
You don't get to surprise vampires often. I turned to watch the vampire walk towards the stage. Every
human face I saw was enraptured, turned blindly to the stage, waiting. The vampire was tall with high
cheekbones, model-perfect, sculpted. He was too masculine to be beautiful, and too perfect to be real.
He strode through the tables wearing a proverbial vampire outfit, black tux and white gloves. He
stopped one table away from me, to stare. He held the audience in the palm of his mind, helpless and
waiting. But there I sat staring at him, though not at his eyes.
His body stiffened, surprised. There's nothing like ruining the calm of a hundred-year-old vampire to
boost a girl's morale.
I looked past him to see Jean-Claude. He was staring at me. I saluted him with my drink. He
acknowledged it with a nod of his head.
The tall vampire was standing beside Phillip. Phillip's eyes were as blank as any human's. The spell or
whatever drifted away. With a thought he awoke the audience, and they gasped. Magic.
Jean-Claude's voice filled the sudden silence. "This is Robert. Welcome him to our stage."
The crowd went wild, applauding and screaming. Catherine was applauding along with everyone else.
Apparently, she was impressed.
The music changed again, pulsing and throbbing in the air, almost painfully loud. Robert the vampire
began to dance. He moved with a careful violence, pumping to the music. He threw his white gloves into
the audience. One landed at my feet. I left it there.
Monica said, "Pick it up."
I shook my head.
Another woman leaned over from another table. Her breath smelled like whiskey. "You don't want it?"
I shook my head.
She got up, I suppose to get the glove. Monica beat her to it. The woman sat down, looking unhappy.
The vampire had stripped, showing a smooth expanse of chest. He dropped to the stage and did
fingertip push-ups. The audience went wild. I wasn't impressed. I knew he could bench press a car, if he
wanted to. What's a few pushups compared to that?
He began to dance around Phillip. Phillip turned to face him, arms outspread, slightly crouched, as if he
were ready for an attack. They began circling each other. The music softened until it was only a soft
underscoring to the movements on stage.
The vampire began to move closer to Phillip. Phillip moved as if trying to run from the stage. The
vampire was suddenly there, blocking his escape.
I hadn't seen him move. The vampire had just appeared in front of the man. I hadn't seen him move.
Fear drove all the air from my body in an icy rush. I hadn't felt the mind trick, but it had happened.
Jean-Claude was standing only two tables away. He raised one pale hand in a salute to me. The bastard
had been in my mind, and I hadn't known it. The audience gasped, and I looked back to the stage.
They were both kneeling; the vampire had one of Phillip's arms pinned behind his back. One hand
gripped Phillip's long hair, pulling his neck back at a painful angle.
Phillip's eyes were wide and terrified. The vampire hadn't put him under. He wasn't under! He was
aware and scared. Dear God. He was panting, his chest rising and falling in short gasps.
The vampire looked out at the audience and hissed, fangs flashing in the lights. The hiss turned the
beautiful face to something bestial. His hunger rode out over the crowd. His need so intense, it made my
stomach cramp.
No, I would not feel this with him. I dug fingernails into the palm of my hand and concentrated. The
feeling faded. Pain helped. I opened my shaking fingers and found four half-moons that slowly filled with
blood. The hunger beat around me, filling the crowd, but not me, not me.
I pressed a napkin to my hand and tried to look inconspicuous.
The vampire drew back his head.
"No," I whispered.
The vampire struck, teeth sinking into flesh. Phillip shrieked, and it echoed in the club. The music died
abruptly. No one moved. You could have dropped a pin.
Soft, moist sucking sounds filled the silence. Phillip began to moan, high in his throat. Over and over
again, small helpless sounds.
I looked out at the crowd. They were with the vampire, feeling his hunger, his need, feeling him feed.
Maybe sharing Phillip's terror, I didn't know. I was apart from it, and glad.
The vampire stood, letting Phillip fall to the stage, limp, unmoving. I stood without meaning to. The man's
scarred back convulsed in a deep, shattering breath, as if he were fighting back from death. And maybe
he was.
He was alive. I sat back down. My knees felt weak. Sweat covered my palms and stung the cuts on my
hand. He was alive, and he enjoyed it. I wouldn't have believed it if someone had told me. I would have
called them a liar.

A vampire junkie. Surely to God, I'd seen everything now.
Jean-Claude whispered, "Who wants a kiss?"
No one moved for a heartbeat; then hands, holding money, raised here and there. Not many, but a few.
Most people looked confused, as if they had woken from a bad dream. Monica was holding money up.
Phillip lay where he had been dropped, chest rising and falling.
Robert the vampire came to Monica. She tucked money down his pants. He pressed his bloody, fanged
mouth to her lips. The kiss was long and deep, full of probing tongues. They were tasting each other.
The vampire drew away from Monica. Her hands at his neck tried to draw him back, but he pulled
away. He turned to me. I shook my head and showed him empty hands. No money here, folks.
He grabbed for me, snake-quick. No time to think. My chair crashed to the floor. I was standing, just
out of reach. No ordinary human could have seen him coming. The jig, as they say, was up.
A buzz of voices raised through the audience as they tried to figure out what had happened. Just your
friendly neighborhood animator, folks, nothing to get excited about. The vampire was still staring at me.
Jean-Claude was suddenly beside me, and I hadn't seen him come. "Are you all right, Anita?"
His voice held things that the words didn't even hint at. Promises whispered in darkened rooms, under
cool sheets. He sucked me under, rolled my mind like a wino after money, and it felt good. Crash - Shrill
- Noise thundered through my mind, chased the vampire out, held him at bay.
My beeper had gone off. I blinked and staggered against our table. He reached out to steady me. "Don't
touch me," I said.
He smiled. "Of course."
I pushed the button on my beeper to silence it. Thank you God, that I hung the beeper on my waistband
instead of stuffing it in a purse. I might never have heard it otherwise. I called from the phone at the bar.
The police wanted my expertise at the Hillcrest Cemetery. I had to work on my night off. Yippee, and I
meant it.
I offered to take Catherine with me, but she wanted to stay. Whatever else you can say about vampires,
they are fascinating. It went with the job description, like drinking blood and working nights. It was her
choice.
I promised to come back in time to drive them home. Then I picked up my cross from the holy item
check girl and slipped it inside my shirt.
Jean-Claude was standing by the door. He said, "I almost had you, my little animator."
I glanced at his face and quickly down. "Almost doesn't count, you blood-sucking bastard."
Jean-Claude threw back his head and laughed. His laughter followed me out into the night, like velvet
rubbing along my spine.
