18
The door to the other office opened. A tall, blonde woman stepped through. She was somewhere
between forty and fifty. Tailored golden pants encircled a slender waist. A sleeveless blouse the color of
an eggshell exposed tanned arms, a gold Rolex watch, and a wedding band encircled with diamonds. The
rock in the engagement ring must have weighed a pound. I bet she hadn't even blinked when Jamison
talked price.
The boy that followed her was also slender and blond. He looked about fifteen, but I knew he had to be
at least eighteen. Legally, you cannot join the Church of Eternal Life unless you are of age. He couldn't
drink legally yet, but he could choose to die and live forever. Funny, how that didn't make much sense to
me.
Jamison brought up the rear, smiling, solicitous. He was talking softly to the boy as he walked them
towards the door.
I got a business card out of my purse. I held it out towards the woman. She looked at it, then at me. Her
gaze slid over me from top to bottom. She didn't seem impressed; maybe it was the shirt. "Yes," she said.
Breeding. It takes real breeding to make a person feel like shit with one word. Of course, it didn't bother
me. No, the great golden goddess did not make me feel small and grubby. Right. "The number on this
card is for a man who specializes in vampire cults. He's good."
"I do not want my son brainwashed."
I managed a smile. Raymond Fields was my vampire cult expert, and he didn't do brainwashing. He did
do truth, no matter how unpleasant. "Mr. Fields will give you the potential down side of vampirism," I
said.



--------------------------------------- 77

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
"I believe Mr. Clarke has given us all the information we need."
I raised my arm near her face. "1 didn't get these scars playing touch football. Please, take the card. Call
him, or not. It's up to you."
She was a little pale under her expert makeup. Her eyes were a little wide, staring at my arm. "Vampires
did this?" Her voice was small and breathy, almost human.
"Yes," I said.
Jamison took her elbow. "Mrs. Franks, I see you've met our resident vampire slayer."
She looked at him, then back at me. Her careful face was beginning to crumble. She licked her lips and
turned back to me. "Really." She was recovering quickly; she sounded superior again.
I shrugged. What could I say? I pressed the card into her manicured hand, and Jamison tactfully took it
from her and pocketed it. But she had let him. What could I do? Nothing. I had tried. Period. Over. But
I stared at her son. His face was incredibly young.
I remembered when eighteen was grown-up. I had thought I knew everything. I was about twenty-one
when I figured out I knew dip-wad. I still knew nothing, but I tried real hard. Sometimes, that is the best
you can do. Maybe the best anyone can do. Boy, Miss Cynical in the morning.
Jamison was ushering them towards the door. I caught a few sentences. "She was trying to kill them.
They merely defended themselves."
Yeah, that's me, hit person for the undead. Scourge of the graveyard. Right. I left Jamison to his
half-truths and went into the office. I still needed the files. Life goes on, at least for me. I couldn't stop
seeing the boy's face, the wide eyes. His face had been all golden tan, baby smooth. Shouldn't you at
least have to shave before you can kill yourself?
I shook my head as if I could shake the boy's face away. It almost worked. I was kneeling with the
folders in my hands when Jamison came in the office. He shut the door behind him. I had thought he
might.
His skin was the color of dark honey, his eyes pale green; long, tight curls framed his face. The hair was
almost auburn. Jamison was the first green-eyed, red-haired black man I had ever met. He was slender,
lean, not the thinness of exercise but of lucky genetics. Jamison's idea of a workout was lifting shot
glasses at a good party.
"Don't ever do that again," he said.
"Do what?" I stood with the files clasped to my chest.
He shook his head and almost smiled, but it was an angry smile, a flash of small white teeth. "Don't be a
smart ass."
"Sorry," I said.
"Bullshit, you're not sorry."



--------------------------------------- 78

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
"About trying to give Fields's card to the woman, no. I'm not sorry. I'd do it again."
"I don't like to be undermined in front of my clients."
I shrugged.
"I mean it, Anita. Don't ever do that again."
I wanted to ask him, or what, but I didn't. "You aren't qualified to counsel people about whether or not
they become the undead."
"Bert thinks I am."
"Bert would take money for a hit on the Pope if he thought he could get away with it."
Jamison smiled, then frowned at me, then couldn't help himself and smiled again. "You do have a way
with words."
"Thanks."
"Don't undermine me with clients, okay?"
"I promise never to interfere when you are discussing raising the dead."
"That isn't good enough," he said.
"It's the best you're going to get. You are not qualified to counsel people. It's wrong."
"Little Miss Perfect. You murder people for money. You're nothing but a damned assassin."
I took a deep breath, and let it out. I would not fight with him today. "I execute criminals with the full
blessing of the law."
"Yeah, but you enjoy it. You get your jollies by pounding in the stakes. You can't go a fucking week
without bathing in someone's blood."
I just stared at him. "Do you really believe that?" I asked.
He wouldn't look at me but finally said, "I don't know."
"Poor little vampires, poor misunderstood creatures. Right? The one who branded me slaughtered
twenty-three people before the courts would give me the go-ahead." I yanked my shirt down to expose
the collarbone scar. "This vampire had killed ten people. He specialized in little boys, said their meat was
most tender. He's not dead, Jamison. He got away. But he found me last night and threatened my life."
"You don't understand them."
"No!" I shoved a finger in his chest. "You don't understand them."
He glared down at me, nostrils flaring, breath coming in warm gasps. I stepped back. I shouldn't have



--------------------------------------- 79

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
touched him; that was against the rules. You never touch anyone in a fight unless you want violence.
"I'm sorry, Jamison." I don't know if he understood what I was apologizing for. He didn't say anything.
As I walked past him, he asked, "What are the files for?"
I hesitated, but he knew the files as well as I did. He'd know what was missing. "The vampire murders."
We turned towards each other at the same moment. Staring. "You took the money?" he asked.
That stopped me. "You knew about it?"
He nodded. "Bert tried to get them to hire me in your place. They wouldn't go for it."
"And after all the good PR you've given them."
"I told Bert you wouldn't do it. That you wouldn't work for vampires."
His slightly up-tilted eyes were studying my face, searching, trying to squeeze some truth out. I ignored
him, my face a pleasant blankness. "Money talks, Jamison, even to me."
"You don't give a damn about money."
"Awful shortsighted of me, isn't it?" I said.
"I always thought so. You didn't do it for money." A statement. "What was it?"
I didn't want Jamison in on this. He thought vampires were fanged people. And they were very careful to
keep him on the nice, clean fringes. He never got his hands dirty, so he could afford to pretend or ignore,
or even lie to himself. I had gotten dirty once too often. Lying to yourself was a good way to die. "Look,
Jamison, we don't agree on vampires, but anything that can kill vampires could make meat pies out of
human beings. I want to catch the maniac before he, she, or it, does just that."
It wasn't a bad lie, as lies go. It was even plausible. He blinked at me. Whether he believed me or not
would depend on how much he needed to believe me. How much he needed his world to stay safe and
clean. He nodded, once, very slowly. "You think you can catch something the master vampires can't
catch?"
"They seem to think so." I opened the door and he followed me out. Maybe he would have asked more
questions, maybe not, but a voice interrupted.
"Anita, are you ready to go?"
We both turned, and I must have looked as puzzled as Jamison.
I wasn't meeting anyone.
There was a man sitting in one of the lobby chairs, half-lost in the jungle plants. I didn't recognize him at
first. Thick brown hair, cut short, stretched back from a very nice face. Black sunglasses hid the eyes. He
turned his head and spoiled the illusion of short hair. A thick ponytail curled over his collar. He was
wearing a blue denim jacket with the collar up. A blood-red tank top set off his tan. He stood slowly,



--------------------------------------- 80

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
smiled, and removed his glasses.
It was Phillip of the many scars. I hadn't recognized him with his clothes on. There was a bandage on the
side of his neck, mostly hidden by the jacket collar. "We need to talk," he said.
I closed my mouth and tried to look reasonably intelligent. "Phillip, I didn't expect to see you so soon."
Jamison was looking from one to the other of us. He was frowning. Suspicious. Mary was sitting, chin
leaning on her hands, enjoying the show.
The silence was damn awkward. Phillip put a hand out to Jamison. I mumbled. "Jamison Clarke, this is
Phillip . . . a friend." The moment I said it, I wanted to take it back. "Friend" is what people call their
lovers. Beats the heck out of significant other.
Jamison smiled broadly. "So, you're Anita's . . . friend." He said the last word slowly, rolling it around on
his tongue.
Mary made a hubba-hubba motion with one hand. Phillip saw it and flashed her a dazzling
melt-your-libido smile. She blushed.
"Well, we have to go now. Come along, Phillip." I grabbed his arm and began pulling him towards the
door.
"Nice to meet you, Phillip," Jamison said. "I'll be sure to mention you to all the rest of the guys who work
here. I'm sure they'd love to meet you sometime."
Jamison was really enjoying himself. "We're very busy right now, Jamison. Maybe some other time," I
said.
"Sure, sure," he said.
Jamison walked us to the door and held it for us. He grinned at us as we walked down the hallway, arm
in arm. Fudge buckets. I had to let the smirking little creep think I had a lover. Good grief. And he would
tell everyone. Phillip slid his arm around my waist, and I fought an urge to push him away. We were
pretending, right, right. I felt him hesitate as his hand brushed the gun on my belt.
We met one of the real estate agents in the hall. She said hello to me but stared at Phillip. He smiled at
her. When we passed her and were waiting for the elevator, I glanced back. Sure enough, she was
watching his backside as we walked away.
I had to admit it was a nice backside. She caught me looking at her and hurriedly turned away.
"Defending my honor," Phillip asked.
I pushed away from him and punched the elevator button. "What are you doing here?"
"Jean-Claude didn't come back last night. Do you know why?"
"I didn't do away with him, if that's what you're implying."
The doors opened. Phillip leaned against them, holding them open with his body and one arm. The smile



--------------------------------------- 81

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
he flashed me was full of potential, a little evil, a lot of sex. Did I really want to be alone in an elevator
with him? Probably not, but I was armed. He, as far as I could tell, was not.
I walked under his arm without having to duck. The doors hushed behind us. We were alone. He leaned
into one comer, arms crossed over his chest, staring at me from behind black lenses.
"Do you always do that?" I asked.
A slight smile. "Do what?"
"Pose."
He stiffened just a little, then relaxed against the wall. "Natural talent."
I shook my head. "Uh-huh." I stared at the flickering floor numbers.
"Is Jean-Claude all right?"
I glanced at him and didn't know what to say. The elevator stopped. We got out. "You didn't answer
me," he said softly.
I sighed. It was too long a story. "It's almost noon. I'll tell you what I can over lunch."
He grinned. "Trying to pick me up, Ms. Blake?"
I smiled before I could stop myself. "You wish."
"Maybe," he said.
"Flirtatious little thing, aren't you?"
"Most women like it."
"I would like it better if I didn't think you'd flirt with my ninety-year-old grandmother the same way
you're flirting with me now."
He coughed back a laugh. "You don't have a very high opinion of me."
"I am a very judgmental person. It's one of my faults."
He laughed again, a nice sound. "Maybe I can hear about the rest of your faults after you've told me
where Jean-Claude is."
"I don't think so."
"Why not?"
I stopped just in front of the glass doors that led out into the street. "Because I saw you last night. I
know what you are, and I know how you get your kicks."
His hand reached out and brushed my shoulder. "I get my kicks a lot of different ways."



--------------------------------------- 82

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
I frowned at his hand, and it moved away. "Save it, Phillip. I'm not buying."
"Maybe by the end of lunch you will be."
I sighed. I had met men like Phillip before, handsome men who are accustomed to women drooling over
them. He wasn't trying to seduce me; he just wanted me to admit that I found him attractive. If I didn't
admit it, he would keep pestering me. "I give up; you win."
"What do I win?" he asked.
"You're wonderful, you're gorgeous. You are one of the best looking men I have ever seen. From the
soles of your boots, the length of your skin-tight jeans, to the flat, rippling plains of your stomach, to the
sculpted line of your jaw, you are beautiful. Now can we go to lunch and cut the nonsense?"
He lowered his sunglasses just enough to see over the top of them. He stared at me like that for several
minutes, then raised the glasses back in place. "You pick the restaurant." He said it flat, no teasing.
I wondered if I had offended him. I wondered if I cared.
 
 
