28
The goat lay on its side. The bare white of its spine glimmered in the moonlight. Blood still seeped into
the ground from the gaping wound. Eyes were rolled and glazed, tongue lolling out of its mouth.
The older the zombie, the bigger the death needed. I knew that, and that was why I avoided older
zombies when I could. At a hundred years the corpse was just so much dust. Maybe a few bone
fragments if you were lucky. They reformed to rise from the grave. If you had the power to do it.
Problem was, most animators couldn't raise the long-dead, a century and over. I could. I just didn't want
to. Bert and I had had long discussions about my preferences. The older the zombie, the more we can
charge. This was at least a twenty-thousand-dollar job. I doubted I'd get paid tonight, unless living 'til
morning was payment enough. Yeah, I guess it was. Here's to seeing another dawn.
Zachary came to stand beside me. He had torn the remnants of his shirt off. He stood thin and pale
beside me. His face was all shadows and white flesh, high cheekbones almost cavernous. "What next?"
he asked.
The goat carcass was inside the blood circle he had traced earlier; good. "Bring everything we need into
the circle."
He brought a long hunting knife and a pint jar full of pale faintly luminous ointment. I preferred a machete
myself, but the knife was huge, with one jagged edge and a gleaming point. The knife was clean and
sharp. He took good care of his tools. Brownie point for him.
"We can't kill the goat twice," he said. "What are we going to use?"
"Us," I said.
"What are you talking about?"
"We'll cut ourselves; fresh, live blood, as much as we're willing to give."
"The blood loss would leave you too weak to go on."



--------------------------------------- 123

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
I shook my head. "We already have a blood circle, Zachary We're just going to rewalk, not redraw it."
"I don't understand."
"I don't have time to explain metaphysics to you. Every injury is a small death. We'll give the circle a
lesser death, and reactivate it."
He shook his head. "I still don't get it."
I took a deep breath, and then realized I couldn't explain it to him. It was like trying to explain the
mechanics of breathing. You could break it down into steps, but that didn't tell you what it felt like to
breathe. "I'll show you what I mean." If he didn't feel this part of the ritual, understand it without words,
the rest wouldn't work anyway.
I held out my hand for the knife. He hesitated, then handed it to me, hilt first. The thing felt top-heavy,
but then it wasn't designed for throwing. I took a deep breath and pressed the blade edge against my left
arm, just below the cross burn. A quick down stroke, and blood welled up, dark and dripping. It stung,
sharp and immediate. I let out the breath I'd been holding and handed the knife to Zachary.
He was staring from me to the knife.
"Do it, right arm, so we'll mirror each other," I said.
He nodded and made a quick slash across his right upper arm. His breath hissed, almost a gasp.
"Kneel with me." I knelt, and he followed me down, mirroring me as I asked. A man who could follow
directions; not bad.
I bent my left arm at the elbow and raised it so the fingertips were head-high, elbow shoulder-high. He
did the same. "We clasp hands and press the cuts together."
He hesitated, immobile.
"What's the matter?" I asked.
He shook his head, two quick shakes, and his hand wrapped around mine. His arm was longer than
mine, but we managed.
His skin felt uncomfortably cool against mine. I glanced up at his face, but I couldn't read it. I had no
idea what he was thinking. I took a deep, cleansing breath and began. "We give our blood to the earth.
Life for death, death for life. Raise the dead to drink our blood. Let us feed them as they obey us."
His eyes did widen then; he understood. One hurdle down. I stood and drew him with me. I led him
along the blood circle. I could feel it, like an electric current up my spine. I stared straight into his eyes.
They were almost silver in the moonlight. We walked the circle and ended where we had begun, by the
sacrifice.
We sat in the blood-soaked grass. I dabbed my right hand in the still-oozing blood of the goat's wound.
I was forced to kneel to reach Zachary's face. I smeared blood over his forehead, down his cheeks.
Smooth skin, the rub of new beard. I left a dark handprint over his heart.



--------------------------------------- 124

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
The woven band was like a ring of darkness on his arm. I smeared blood along the beads, fingertips
finding the soft brush of feathers worked into the string. The gris-gris needed blood, I could feel that, but
not goat blood. I shrugged it away. Time to worry about Zachary's personal magic later.
He smeared blood on my face. Fingertips only, as if afraid to touch me. I could feel his hand shake as he
traced my cheek. The blood was a cool wetness over my breast. Heart blood.
Zachary unscrewed the jar of homemade ointment. It was a pale off-white color with flecks of greenish
light in it. The glowing flecks were graveyard mold.
I rubbed ointment over the blood smears. The skin soaked it up.
He brushed the cream on my face. It felt waxy, thick. I could smell the pine scent of rosemary for
memory, cinnamon and cloves for preservation, sage for wisdom, and some sharp herb, maybe thyme, to
bind it all together. There was too much cinnamon in it. The night suddenly smelled like apple pie.
We went together to smear ointment and blood on the tombstone. The name was only soft grooves in
the marble. I traced them with my fingertips. Estelle Hewitt. Born 18 something, died 1866. There had
been more writing below the date and name, but it was gone, beyond reading. Who had she been? I had
never raised a zombie that I knew nothing about. It wasn't always a good idea, but then this whole thing
wasn't a good idea.
Zachary stood at the foot of the grave. I stayed by the tombstone. It felt like an invisible cord was
stretched between Zachary and me. We started the chant together, no questions needed. "Hear us,
Estelle Hewitt. We call you from the grave. By blood, magic, and steel, we call you. Arise, Estelle, come
to us, come to us."
His eyes met mine, and I felt a tug along the invisible line that bound us. He was powerful. Why hadn't he
been able to do it alone?
"Estelle, Estelle, come to us. Waken, Estelle, arise and come to us." We called her name in ever-rising
voices.
The earth shuddered. The goat slid to one side as the ground erupted, and a hand clutched for air. A
second hand grabbed at nothing, and the earth began to pour the dead woman out.
It was then, only then, that I realized what was wrong, why he hadn't been able to raise her on his own. I
now knew where I had seen him before. I had been at his funeral. There were so few animators that if
anyone died, you went, period. Professional courtesy. I had glimpsed that angular face, rouged and
painted. Somebody had done a bad job of making him up, I remembered thinking that at the time.
The zombie had almost pulled itself from the grave. It sat panting, legs still trapped in the ground.
Zachary and I stared at each other over the grave. All I could do was stare at him like an idiot. He was
dead, but not a zombie, not anything I'd ever heard of. I would have bet my life he was human, and I may
have done just that.
The woven band on his arm. The spell that hadn't been satisfied with goat's blood. What was he doing to
stay "alive"?
I had heard rumors of gris-gris that could cheat death. Rumors, legends, fairy tales. But then again,



--------------------------------------- 125

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
maybe not.
Estelle Hewitt may have been pretty once, but a hundred years in the grave takes a lot out of a person.
Her skin was an ugly greyish white, waxy, nearly expressionless, fake-looking. White gloves hid the
hands, stained with grave dirt. The dress was white and lace-covered. I was betting on wedding finery.
Dear God.
Black hair clung to her head in a bun, wisps of it tracing her nearly skeletal face. All the bones showed,
as if the skin were clay molded over a framework. Her eyes were wild, dark, showing too much white.
At least they hadn't dried out like shriveled grapes. I hated that.
Estelle sat by her grave and tried to gather her thoughts. It would take a while. Even the recently dead
took a few minutes to orient themselves. A hundred years was a damn long time to be dead.
I walked around the grave, careful to stay within the circle. Zachary watched me come without a word.
He hadn't been able to raise the corpse because he was a corpse. The recently dead he could still handle,
but not long-dead. The dead calling the dead from the grave; there was something really wrong with that.
I stared up at him, watching him grip the knife. I knew his secret. Did Nikolaos? Did anyone? Yes,
whoever had made the gris-gris knew, but who else? I squeezed the skin around the cut on my arm. I
reached bloody fingers towards the gris-gris.
He caught my wrist, eyes wide. His breathing had quickened. "Not you."
"Then who?"
"People who won't be missed."
The zombie we had raised moved in a rustle of petticoats and hoops. It began crawling towards us.
"I should have let them kill you," I said.
He smiled then. "Can you kill the dead?"
I jerked my wrist free. "I do it all the time."
The zombie was scrambling at my legs. It felt like sticks digging at me. "Feed it yourself, you son of a
bitch," I said.
He held his wrist down to it. The zombie grabbed for it, clumsy, eager. It sniffed his skin but released
him untouched. "I don't think I can feed it, Anita."
Of course not; fresh, live blood was needed to close the ritual. Zachary was dead. He didn't qualify
anymore. But I did.
"Damn you, Zachary, damn you."
He just stared at me.
The zombie was making a mewling sound low in her throat. Dear God. I offered her my bleeding left
arm. Her stick-hands dug into my skin. Her mouth fastened over the wound, sucking. I fought the urge to



--------------------------------------- 126

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
jerk away. I had made the bargain, had chosen the ritual. I had no choice. I stared at Zachary while the
thing fed on my blood. Our zombie, a joint venture. Dammit.
"How many people have you killed to keep yourself alive?" I asked.
"You don't want to know."
"How many!"
"Enough," he said.
I tensed, raising my arm, nearly lifting the zombie to her feet. She cried, a soft sound, like a newborn
kitten. She released my arm so suddenly, she fell backwards. Blood dripped down her bony chin. Her
teeth were stained with it. I couldn't look at it, any of it.
Zachary said, "The circle is open. The zombie is yours."
For a minute I thought he was talking to me; then I remembered the vampires. They had been huddled in
the dark, so still and unmoving I had forgotten them. I was the only live thing in the whole damn place. I
had to get out of there.
I picked up my shoes and walked out of the circle. The vampires made way for me. Theresa stopped
me, blocking my path. "Why did you let it suck your blood? Zombies don't do that."
I shook my head. Why did I think it would be faster to explain than to fight about it? "The ritual had
already gone wrong. We couldn't start over without another sacrifice. So I offered myself as the
sacrifice."
She stared. "Yourself?"
"It was the best I could do, Theresa. Now get out of my way." I was tired and sick. I had to get out of
there, now. Maybe she heard it in my voice. Maybe she was too eager to get to the zombie to mess with
me. I don't know, but she moved aside. She was just gone, like the wind had swept her away. Let them
play their mind games. I was going home.
There was a small scream from behind me. A short, strangled sound, as if the voice wasn't used to
talking. I kept walking. The zombie screamed, human memories still there, enough for fear. I heard a rich
laugh, a faint echo of Jean-Claude's. Where are you, Jean-Claude?
I glanced back once. The vampires were closing in. The zombie was stumbling from one side to the
other, trying to run. But there was nowhere to go.
I stumbled through the crooked gate. A wind had finally come down out of the trees. Another scream
sounded from behind the hedges. I ran, and I didn't look back.
 
 
