45
During the day I learned how to use a shotgun. That night I went caving with wererats.
The cave was dark. I stood in absolute blackness, gripping my flashlight. I touched my hand to my
forehead and couldn't see a damn thing but the funny white images your eyes make when there is no light.
I was wearing a hard hat with a light on it, turned off at present. The wererats had insisted on it. All
around me were sounds. Cries, moans, the popping of bone, a curious sliding sound like a knife drawing
out of flesh. The wererats were changing from human to animal. It sounded like it hurt - a lot. They had
made me swear not to turn on a light until they told me to.
I had never wanted to see so badly in my life. It couldn't be so horrible. Could it? But a promise is a



--------------------------------------- 195

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
promise. I sounded like Horton the Elephant. "A person is a person no matter how small." What the hell
was I doing standing in the middle of a cave, in the dark, surrounded by wererats, quoting Dr. Seuss, and
trying to kill a one-thousand-year-old vampire?
It had been one of my stranger weeks.
Rafael, the Rat King, said, "You may turn on your lights."
I did, instantly. My eyes seemed to leech on the light, eager to see. The ratmen stood in small groups in
the wide, flat-roofed tunnel. There were ten of them. I had counted them in human form. Now the seven
males were fur-covered and wearing jean cutoffs. Two wore loose t-shirts. The three women wore loose
dresses, like maternity clothes. Their black button eyes glittered in the light. Everybody was furry.
Edward came to stand near me. He was staring at the weres, face distant, unreadable. I touched his
arm. I had told Rafael that I was not a bounty hunter, but Edward was, sometimes. I hoped I had not
endangered these people.
"Are you ready?" Rafael asked. He was the same sleek black ratman I remembered.
"Yes," I said.
Edward nodded.
The wererats scattered to either side of us, scrambling over low, weathered flowstone. I said to no one
in particular, "I thought caves were damp."
A smaller ratman in a t-shirt said, "Cherokee Caverns is dead cave."
"I don't understand."
"Live cave has water and growing formations. A dry cave where none of the formations are growing is
called dead cave."
"Oh," I said.
He drew lips back from huge teeth, a smile, I think. "More than you wanted to know, huh?"
Rafael hissed back, "We are not here to give guided tours, Louie. Now be quiet, both of you."
Louie shrugged and scrambled ahead of me. He was the same human that had been with Rafael in the
restaurant, the one with the dark eyes.
One of the females was nearly grey-furred. Her name was Lillian, and she was a doctor. She carried a
backpack full of medical supplies. They seemed to be planning on us getting hurt. At least that meant they
thought we would come out alive. I was beginning to wonder about that part myself.
Two hours later the ceiling dropped to a point where I couldn't stand upright. And I learned what the
hard hats they had given Edward and me were for. I scraped my head on the rock at least a thousand
times. I'd have knocked myself unconscious long before we saw Nikolaos.
The rats seemed designed for the tunnel, sliding along, flattening their bodies in a strange, scrambling



--------------------------------------- 196

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
grace. Edward and I could not match it. Not even close.
He cursed softly behind me. His five inches of extra height were causing him pain. My lower back was
an aching burn. He had to be in worse shape. There were pockets where the ceiling opened up and we
could stand. I started looking very forward to them, like air pockets to a diver.
The quality of darkness changed. Light - there was light up ahead, not much, but it was there. It flickered
at the far end of the tunnel like a mirage.
Rafael crouched beside us. Edward sat flat on the dry rock. I joined him. "There is your dungeon. We
will wait here until near dark. If you have not come out, we will leave. After Nikolaos is dead, if we can,
we will help you."
I nodded; the light on my hard hat nodded with me. "Thank you for helping us."
He shook his narrow, ratty face. "I have delivered you to the devil's door. Do not thank me for that."
I glanced at Edward. His face was still distant, unreadable. If he was interested in what the ratman had
just said, I couldn't tell it. We might as well have been talking about a grocery list.
Edward and I knelt before the opening into the dungeon. Torchlight flickered, incredibly bright after the
darkness. Edward was cradling his Uzi that hung on a strap across his chest. I had the shotgun. I was
also carrying my two pistols, two knives, and a derringer stuffed in the pocket of my jacket. It was a
present from Edward. He had handed it to me with this advice: "It kicks like a sonofabitch, but press it
under someone's chin, and it will blow their fucking head off." Nice to know.
It was daylight outside. There shouldn't be a vampire stirring, but Burchard would be there. And if he
saw us, Nikolaos would know. Somehow, she'd know. Goosebumps marched up my arms.
We scrambled inside, ready to kill and maim. The room was empty. All that adrenaline sort of sat in my
body, making my breathing too quick and my heart pound for no reason. The spot where Phillip had
been chained was clean. Someone had scrubbed it down real good.
I fought an urge to touch the wall where he'd been.
Edward called softly, "Anita." He was at the door.
I hurried up to him.
"What's wrong?" he asked.
"She killed Phillip in here."
"Keep your mind on business. I don't want to die because you're daydreaming."
I started to get angry and swallowed it. He was right.
Edward tried the door, and it opened. No prisoners, no need to lock it. I took the left side of the door,
and he took the right. The corridor was empty.
My hands were sweating on the shotgun. Edward led off down the right hand side of the corridor. I



--------------------------------------- 197

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
followed him into the dragon's lair. I didn't feel much like a knight. I was fresh out of shiny steeds, or was
that shiny armor?
Whatever. We were here. This was it. I could taste my heart in my throat.
 
 
