27
Madge stopped us in the hall. Her hand started to go up to my throat. I grabbed her wrist. "Touchy,
touchy," she said. "Didn't you like it? Don't tell me you've been with Phillip a month and he hasn't tasted
you before?"
She pulled down the silky bra to expose the upper mound of her breast. There was a perfect set of bite
marks in the pale flesh. "It's Phillip's trademark, didn't you know?"
"No," I said. I pushed past her and started to turn into the living room. A man I did not know fell at my
feet. Crystal was on top of him, pinning him to the floor. He looked young and a little frightened. His eyes
looked up past Crystal, to me. I thought he was going to ask for help, but she kissed him, sloppy and
deep, like she was drinking him from the mouth down. His hands began to lift the silk folds of her skirt.
Her thighs were incredibly white, like beached whales.
I turned abruptly and went for the door. My heels made an important-sounding clack on the hardwood
floor. If I hadn't known better, I would have said it sounded like I was running. I was not running. I was
just walking very fast.
Phillip caught up with me at the door. His hand pressed flat against it to keep me from opening it. I took
a deep, steadying breath. I would not lose my temper, not yet.
"I'm sorry, Anita, but it's better this way. You're safe now, from the humans."
I looked up at him and shook my head. "You just don't get it. I need some air, Phillip. I'm not leaving for
the night, if that's what you're afraid of."
"I'll go out with you."
"No. That would defeat the purpose, Phillip. Since you are one of the things I want to get away from."
He stepped back then, hand at his side. His eyes shut down, guarded, hiding. Why had that hurt his



--------------------------------------- 118

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
feelings? I didn't know, and I didn't want to know.
I opened the door, and the heat fell around me like fur.
"It's dark," he said. "They'll be here soon. I can't help you if I'm not with you."
I stepped close to him and said in a near whisper, "Let's be honest, Phillip. I'm a whole lot better at
protecting myself than you are. The first vampire that crooks its finger will have you for lunch."
His face started to crumble, and I didn't want to see it. "Dammit, Phillip, pull yourself together." I walked
out onto the trellis-covered porch and resisted an urge to slam the door behind me. That would have
been childish. I was feeling a little childish about now, but I'd save it. You never know when some
childish rage may come in handy.
The cicadas and crickets filled the night. There was a wind pulling at the tops of the tall trees, but it never
touched the ground. The air down here was as stale and close as plastic.
The heat felt good after the air-conditioned house. It was real and somehow cleansing. I touched the bite
on my neck. I felt dirty, used, abused, angry, pissed off. I wasn't going to find anything out here. If
someone or something was killing off vampires who did the freak circuit, it didn't seem to be such a bad
idea.
Of course, whether I sympathized with the murderer was not the point. Nikolaos expected me to solve
the crimes, and I damn well better do it.
I took a deep breath of the stiff air and felt the first stirrings of . . . power. It oozed through the trees like
wind, but the touch of it didn't cool the skin. The hair at the back of my neck was trying to crawl down
my spine. Whoever it was, they were powerful. And they were trying to raise the dead.
Despite the heat, we'd had a lot of rain, and my heels sank into the grass immediately. I ended up
walking in a sort of tiptoe crouch, trying not to flounder in the soft earth.
The ground was littered with acorns. It was like walking on marbles. I fell against a tree trunk, catching
myself painfully against the shoulder Aubrey had bruised so nicely.
A sharp bleating, high and panic-stricken, sounded. It was close. Was it a trick of the still air or was it
really a goat bleating? The cry ended in a wet gurgle of sound, thick and bubbling. The trees ended, and
the ground was clear and moon-silvered.
I slipped off one shoe and tried the ground. Damp, cool, but not too bad. I slipped off the other shoe,
tucked them in one hand, and ran.
The back yard was huge, stretching out into the silvered dark. It spread empty, except for a wall of
overgrown hedges, like small trees in the distance. I ran for the hedges. The grave had to be there; there
was no other place for it to hide.
The actual ritual for raising the dead is a short one, as rituals go. The power poured out into the night and
into the grave. It built in a slow, steady rise, a warm "magic." It tugged at my stomach and brought me to
the hedges. They towered up, black in the moonlight, hopelessly overgrown. There was no way I was
squeezing through them.



--------------------------------------- 119

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
A man cried out. Then a woman: "Where is it? Where is the zombie you promised us?"
"It was too old!" The man's voice was thin with fear.
"You said chickens weren't enough, so we got you a goat to kill. But no zombie. I thought you were
good at this."
I found a gate in the opposite side of the hedges. Metal, rusted, and crooked in its frame. It groaned, a
metal scream, as I pushed it open. More than a dozen pairs of eyes turned to me. Pale faces, the utter
stillness of the undead. Vampires. They stood among the ancient grave markers of the small family
cemetery, waiting. Nothing waits as patiently as the dead.
One of the vampires nearest me was the black male from Nikolaos's lair. My pulse quickened, and I did
a quick scan of the crowd. She wasn't here, Thank you, God.
The vampire smiled and said, "Did you come to watch . . . animator?" Had he almost said,
"Executioner"? Was it a secret?
Whatever, he motioned the others back and let me see the show. Zachary lay on the ground. His shirt
was damp with blood. You can't slit anything's throat without getting a little messy. Theresa was standing
over him, hands on hips. She was dressed in black. The only skin showing was a strip of flesh down the
middle, pale and almost luminous in the starlight. Theresa, Mistress of the Dark.
Her eyes flicked to me, a moment, then back to the man. "Well, Zach-a-ri, where is our zombie?"
He swallowed audibly. "It's too old. There isn't enough left."
"Only a hundred years old, animator. Are you so weak?"
He looked down at the ground. His fingers dug into the soft earth. He glanced up at me, then quickly
down. I didn't know. what he was trying to tell me with that one glance. Fear? For me to run? A plea for
help? What?
"What good is an animator who can't raise the dead?" Theresa asked. She dropped to her knees,
suddenly beside him, hands touching his shoulders. Zachary flinched but didn't try to get away.
A ripple of almost-movement ran through the other vampires. I could feel the whole circle at my back
tense. They were going to kill him. The fact that he couldn't raise the zombie was just an excuse, part of
the game.
Theresa ripped his shirt down the back. It fluttered around his lower arms, still tucked into his waist. A
collective sigh ran through the vampires.
There was a woven rope band around his right upper arm. Beads were worked into it. It was a gris-gris,
a voodoo charm, but it wouldn't help him now. No matter what it was supposed to do, it wouldn't be
enough.
Theresa did a stage whisper. "Maybe you're just fresh meat?"
The vampires began to move in, silent as wind in the grass.



--------------------------------------- 120

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
I couldn't just watch. He was a fellow animator and a human being. I couldn't just let him die, not like
this, not in front of me. "Wait," I said.
No one seemed to hear me. The vampires moved in, and I was losing sight of Zachary. If one bit him,
the feeding frenzy would be on. I had seen that happen once. I would never get rid of the nightmares if I
saw it again.
I raised my voice and hoped they listened. "Wait! Didn't he belong to Nikolaos? Didn't he call Nikolaos
master?"
They hesitated, then parted for Theresa to stride through them until she faced me. "This is not your
business." She stared at me, and I didn't avoid her gaze. One less thing to worry about.
"I'm making it my business," I said.
"Do you wish to join him?"
The vampires began to spread out from Zachary to encircle me as well. I let them. There wasn't much I
could do about it anyway. Either I'd get us both out alive or I'd die, too, maybe, probably. Oh, well.
"I wish to speak with him, one professional to another," I said.
"Why?" she asked.
I stepped close to her, almost touching. Her anger was nearly palpable. I was making her look bad in
front of the others, and I knew it, and she knew I knew it. I whispered, though some of the others would
hear me, "Nikolaos gave orders for the man to die, but she wants me alive, Theresa. What would she do
to you if I accidentally died here tonight?" I breathed the last words into her face. "Do you want to spend
eternity locked in a cross-wrapped coffin?"
She snarled and jerked away from me as if I had scalded her. "Damn you, mortal, damn you to hell!"
Her black hair crackled around her face, her hands gripped into claws. "Talk to him, for what good it will
do you. He must raise this zombie, this zombie, or he is ours. So says Nikolaos."
"If he raises the zombie, then he goes free, unharmed?" I asked.
"Yes, but he cannot do it; he isn't strong enough."
"Which was what Nikolaos was counting on," I said.
Theresa smiled, a fierce tug of lips exposing fangs. "Yesss." She turned her back on me and strode
through the other vampires. They parted for her like frightened pigeons. And I was standing up to her.
Sometimes bravery and stupidity are almost interchangeable.
I knelt by Zachary. "Are you hurt?"
He shook his head. "I appreciate the gesture, but they're going to try to kill me tonight." He looked up at
me, pale eyes searching my face. "There isn't anything you can do to stop them." He gave a thin smile.
"Even you have your limits."
"We can raise this zombie if you'll trust me."



--------------------------------------- 121

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
He frowned, then stared at me. I couldn't read his expression: puzzlement and something else. "Why?"
What could I say, that I couldn't just watch him die? He had watched a man be tortured and hadn't lifted
a hand. I opted for the short reason. "Because I can't let them have you, if I can stop it."
"I don't understand you, Anita, I don't understand you at all."
"That makes two of us. Can you stand?"
He nodded. "What are you planning?"
"We're going to share our talent."
His eyes widened. "Shit, you can act as a focus?"
"I've done it twice before." Twice before with the same person. Twice before with someone who had
trained me as an animator. Never with a stranger.
His voice dropped to a bare whisper. "Are you sure you want to do this?"
"Save you?" I asked.
"Share your power," he said.
Theresa strode over to us in a swish of cloth. "Enough of this, animator. He can't do it, so he pays the
price. Either leave now, or join us at our . . . feast."
"Are you having rare Who-roast-beast?" I asked.
"What are you talking about?"
"It's from Dr. Seuss, How the Grinch Stole Christmas . You know the part, 'And they'd Feast! Feast!
Feast! Feast! They would feast on Who-pudding, and rare Who-roast-beast.' "
"You are crazy."
"So I've been told."
"Do you want to die?" she asked.
I stood up, very slowly, and felt something build in me. A sureness, an absolute certainty that she was
not a danger to me. Stupid, but it was there, solid and real. "Someone may kill me before all this is over,
Theresa" - I stepped into her, and she gave ground - "but it won't be you."
I could almost taste her pulse in my mouth. Was she afraid of me? Was I going crazy? I had just stood
up to a hundred-year-old vampire, and she had backed down. I felt disoriented, almost dizzy, as if reality
had moved and no one had warned me.
Theresa turned her back on me, hands balled into fists. "Raise the dead, animators, or by all the blood
ever spilled, I'll kill you both."



--------------------------------------- 122

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
I think she meant it. I shook myself like a dog coming out of deep water. I had a baker's dozen worth of
vampires to pacify and a one-hundred-year-old corpse to raise. I could only handle a zillion problems at
a time. A zillion and one was beyond me.
"Get up, Zachary," I said. "Time to go to work."
He stood. "I've never worked with a focus before. You'll have to tell me what to do."
"No problem," I said.
 
 
