16
I stood in the huge stone room where Nikolaos had sat. Only the wooden chair remained, empty, alone.
A coffin sat on the floor to one side. Torchlight gleamed off the polished wood. A breeze eased through
the room. The torches wavered and threw huge black shadows on the walls. The shadows seemed to
move independent of the light. The longer I looked at them, the more I was sure the shadows were too
dark, too thick.
I could taste my heart in my throat. My pulse was hammering in my head. I couldn't breathe. Then I
realized I was hearing a second heartbeat, like an echo. "Jean-Claude?" The shadows cried,
"Jean-Claude," in high whining voices.
I knelt by the coffin and gripped the lid. It was all one piece, and raised on smooth oiled hinges. Blood
poured down the sides of the coffin. The blood poured over my legs, splashed on my arms. I screamed
and stood, covered in blood. It was still warm. "Jean-Claude!"
A pale hand raised out of the blood, spasmed, and collapsed against the side of the coffin.
Jean-Claude's face floated to the top. My hand was reaching out. His heart was fluttering in my head, but
he was dead. He was dead! His hand was icy wax. His eyes flew open. The dead hand grabbed my
wrist.
"No!" I tried to pull my hand free. I went down on my knees in the cooling blood and screamed, "Let me
go!"
He sat up. He was covered in blood. The white shirt dripped with it, like a bloody rag.
"No,"
He pulled my arm closer to him, and pulled me with it. I braced one hand on the coffin. I would not go
to him. I would not go! He bent over my arm, mouth wide, fangs reaching. His heart beat against the
shadows like thunder. "Jean-Claude, no!"
He looked up at me, just before he struck. "I had no choice." Blood began to drip down his face from
his hair, until his face was a bloody mask. Fangs sank into my arm. I screamed, and woke sitting straight
up in bed.
The doorbell was buzzing. I scrambled out of bed, forgetting. I gasped. I had moved too fast for the
beating I'd had last night. I ached all over in places I couldn't possibly be bruised. My hands were stiff
with dried blood. They felt arthritic.
The doorbell was buzzing continuously as if someone was leaning against it. Whoever it was, was going
to get a hug for waking me up. I was sleeping in an oversized shirt. Pulling last night's jeans on was my
version of a robe.
I put Sigmund the stuffed penguin back with all the rest. The stuffed toys sat on a small loveseat against
the far wall, under the window. Penguins lined the floor around it like a plump fuzzy tide.
It hurt to move. It even felt tight when I breathed. I yelled, "I'm coming." It occurred to me, halfway to
the door, that it might be someone unfriendly. I padded back into the bedroom and got my gun. My hand
felt stiff and awkward around it. I should have cleaned and bandaged the hands last night. Oh, well.



--------------------------------------- 69

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
I knelt behind the chair Edward had moved in front of the door and called, "Who is it?"
"It's Ronnie, Anita. We're supposed to work out this morning."
It was Saturday. I had forgotten. It was always amazing how ordinary life was, even while people were
trying to hurt you. I felt like Ronnie should know about last night. Something so extraordinary should
touch all my life, but it didn't work that way. When I'd been in the hospital with my arm in traction and
tubes running all through me, my stepmother had complained that I wasn't married yet. She's worried that
I will be an old maid at the ripe age of twenty-four. Judith is not what you would call a liberated woman.
My family does not cope well with what I do, the chances I take, the injuries. So they ignore it as best
they can. Except for my sixteen-year-old stepbrother. Josh thinks I'm cool, neat, whatever word they're
using now.
Veronica Sims is different. She's my friend, and she understands. Ronnie is a private detective. We take
turns visiting each other in the hospital.
I opened the door and let her in, gun limp at my side. She took it all in and said, "Shit, you look awful."
I smiled. "Well, at least I took like I feel."
She came in and dropped her gym bag in front of the chair. "Can you tell me what happened?" Not a
demand, a question. Ronnie understood that not everything could be shared.
"Sorry that I won't be able to work out today."
"Looks like you had all the workout you can handle. Go soak those hands in the sink. I'll make coffee.
Okay?"
I nodded and regretted it. Aspirins, aspirins sounded real good right now. I stopped just before I went
into the bathroom. "Ronnie?"
"Yes." She stood there in my small kitchen, a measuring cup of fresh coffee beans in one hand. She was
five-nine. Sometimes, I forget how tall that is. It amazes people that we can run together. The trick is I set
the pace, and I push myself. It's a very good workout.
"I think I have some bagels in the fridge. Could you pop them in the microwave with some cheese?"
She stared at me. "I've known you for three years, and this is the first time I've ever heard you ask for
food before ten o'clock."
"Listen, if it's too much trouble, forget it."
"It isn't that, and you know it."
"Sorry. I'm just tired."
"Go doctor yourself, then you can tell me about it. Okay"
"Yeah." Soaking the hands did not make them feel better. It felt like I was peeling the skin off my fingers.



--------------------------------------- 70

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
I patted them dry and rubbed Neosporin ointment over the scrapes. "A topical antibacterial," the label
read. By the time I finished all the Band-Aids, I looked like a pinkish-tan version of the mummy's hand.
My back was a mass of dark bruises. My ribs were decorated in putrid purple. There wasn't much I
could do about it, except hope the aspirin kicked in. Well, there was one thing I could do - move.
Stretching exercises would limber the body and give me movement without pain, sort of. The stretching
itself would feel like torture. I'd do it later. I needed to eat first.
I was starving. Usually, the thought of eating before ten made me nauseous. This morning I wanted food,
needed food. Very weird. Maybe it was stress.
The smell of bagels and melting cheese made my stomach ripple. The smell of fresh brewed coffee made
me want to chew the couch.
I scarfed down two bagels and three cups of coffee while Ronnie sat across from me, sipping her first
cup. I looked up and found her watching me. Her grey eyes were staring at me. I'd seen her look at
suspects like that. "What?" I asked.
She shrugged. "Nothing. Can you catch your breath and tell me about last night?"
I nodded, and it didn't hurt as much. Aspirin, nature's gift to modern man. I told her, from Monica's call
to my meeting with Valentine. I didn't tell her that it all took place at the Circus of the Damned. That was
very dangerous information to have right now. And I left out the blue lights on the stairs, the sound of
Jean-Claude's voice in my head. Something told me that was dangerous information, too. I've learned to
trust my instincts, so I left it out.
Ronnie's good, she looked at me, and said, "Is that everything?"
"Yes." An easy lie, simple, one word. I don't think Ronnie bought it.
"Okay." She took a sip of coffee. "What do you want me to do?"
"Ask around. You have access to the hate groups. Like Humans Against Vampires, The League of
Human Voters, the usual. See if any of them might be involved with the murders. I can't go near them." I
smiled. "After all, animators are one of the groups they hate."
"But you do kill vampires."
"Yeah, but I also raise zombies. Too weird for the hardcore bigot."
"All right. I'll check out HAV and the rest. Anything else?"
I thought about it and shook my head, almost no pain at all. "Not that I can think of. Just be very careful.
I don't want to endanger you the way I did Catherine."
"That wasn't your fault."
"Right."
"It isn't your fault, none of this is."



--------------------------------------- 71

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
"Tell that to Catherine and her fiancé if things go bad."
"Anita, dammit, these creatures are using you. They want you discouraged and frightened, so they can
control you. If you let the guilt mess with your head, you're going to get killed."
"Well, gee, Ronnie, just what I wanted to hear. If this is your version of a pep talk, I'll skip the rally."
"You don't need cheering up. You need a good shaking."
"Thanks, I already had one last night."
"Anita, listen to me." She was staring at me, eyes intense, her face searching mine, trying to see if I was
really hearing her. "You've done all you can for Catherine. I want you to concentrate on keeping yourself
alive. You're ass deep in enemies. Don't get sidetracked."
She was right. Do what you can and move on. Catherine was out of it, for now. It was the best I could
do. "Ass-deep in enemies, but ankle-deep in friends."
She grinned. "Maybe it'll even out."
I cradled the coffee in my bandaged hands. Warmth radiated through the cup. "I'm scared."
"Which proves you aren't as stupid as you look."
"Gee, thanks a lot."
"You're welcome." She raised her coffee cup in a salute. "To Anita Blake, animator, vampire slayer, and
good friend. Watch your back."
I clinked my cup against hers. "You watch yours, too. Being my friend right now may not be the
healthiest of avocations."
"Since when was that a news bulletin?"
Unfortunately, she had a point.
 
 
