26
The auburn-haired woman with Edward came over to the couch and slid into Phillip's lap. She giggled
and wrapped her arms around his neck with a little kick of her feet. Her hands didn't wander lower, and
she didn't try to undress him. The night was looking up. Edward followed behind the woman like a blond
shadow. There was a drink in his hand and a suitably harmless smile on his face.
If I hadn't known him, I would never have looked at him and said, there, there is a dangerous man.
Edward the Chameleon. He balanced on the couch arm at the woman's back, one hand rubbing her
shoulder.
"Anita, this is Darlene," Phillip said.
I nodded. She giggled and kicked her little feet.
"This is Teddy. Isn't he scrumptious?"
Teddy? Scrumptious? I managed a smile, and Edward kissed the side of her neck. She snuggled against
his chest, managing to wiggle in Phillip's lap at the same time. Coordination.
"Let me have a taste." Darlene sucked her lower lip under her teeth and drew it out slowly.
Phillip's breath trembled. He whispered, "Yes."
I didn't think I was going to like this.
Darlene cupped his arm in her hands and raised it to her mouth.
She bestowed a delicate kiss over one of his scars, then she slid her legs down between his until she was
kneeling at his feet, still holding his arm. The full skirt of her dress was bunched up around her waist,
caught on his legs. She was wearing red lace panties and matching garters. Color coordination.
Phillip's face had gone slack. He was staring at her as she brought his arm towards her mouth. A small
pink tongue licked his arm, quick, out, wet, gone. She glanced up at Phillip, eyes dark and full. She must
have liked what she saw because she began to lick his scars, one by one, delicate, a cat with cream. Her
eyes never left his face.
Phillip shuddered; his spine spasmed. He closed his eyes and leaned his head back against the couch.
Her hands went to his stomach. She gripped the fishnet and pulled. It slid out of his pants, and her hands
stroked up bare chest.
He jerked, eyes wide, and caught her arms. He shook his head. "No, no." His voice sounded hoarse,
too deep.



--------------------------------------- 114

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
"You want me to stop?" Darlene asked. Her eyes were nearly closed, breath deep, lips full and waiting.
He was struggling to talk and make sense at the same time. "If we do this . . . that leaves Anita alone.
Fair game. Her first party."
Darlene looked at me, maybe for the first time. "With scars like that?"
"Scars are from a real attack. I talked her into the party." He brought her hands out from under his shirt.
"I can't desert her." His eyes seemed to be focusing again. "She doesn't know the rules."
Darlene leaned her head on his thigh. "Phillip, please, I've missed you."
"You know what they'd do to her."
"Teddy will keep her safe. He knows the rules."
I asked, "You've been to other parties?"
"Yes," Edward said. He held my gaze for several seconds while I tried to picture him at other parties. So
this was where he got his information about the vampire world, through the freaks.
"No," Phillip said. He stood, bringing Darlene to her feet, still holding her forearms. "No," he said and his
voice sounded certain, confident. He released her and held out his hand to me. I took it. What else could
I do?
His hand was sweating and warm. He strode out of the room, and I was forced to half-run in my heels
to catch up with my hand.
He led me down the hall to the bathroom and we went in. He locked the door and leaned against it,
sweat beaded on his face, eyes closed. I took back my hand, and he didn't fight me.
I looked around at the available seating and finally chose to sit on the edge of the bathtub. It wasn't
comfortable, but it seemed the lesser of two evils. Phillip drew in great gulps of air and finally turned to
the sink. He ran water loud and splashing, dipped his hands in, and covered his face again and again until
he stood, water dripping down his face. Droplets caught in his eyelashes and hair. He blinked at himself
in the mirror over the basin. He looked startled, wide-eyed.
The water was dripping down his neck and chest. I stood and handed him a towel from the rack. He
didn't respond. I mopped up his chest with the soft, clean-smelling folds of the towel.
He finally took the towel and finished drying off. His hair was dark and wet around his face. There was
no way to dry it out. "I did it," he said.
"Yes," I said, "you did it."
"I almost let her."
"But you didn't, Phillip. That's what counts."
He nodded, rapidly, head bobbing. "I guess so." He still seemed out of breath.



--------------------------------------- 115

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
"We better be getting back to the party."
He nodded. But he stayed where he was, breathing too deep, like he couldn't get enough oxygen.
"Phillip, are you all right?" It was a stupid question, but I couldn't think of what else to say.
He nodded. Mr. Conversation.
"Do you want to leave?" I asked.
He looked at me then. "That's the second time you've offered that. Why?"
"Why what?"
"Why would you offer to let me out of my promise?"
I shrugged and rubbed my hands over my arms. "Because... because you seem to be in some kind of
pain. Because you're a junkie trying to kick the habit, sort of, and I don't want to screw that up for you."
"That's a very . . . decent thing to offer." He said decent like he wasn't used to the word.
"Do you want to leave?"
"Yes," he said, "but we can't."
"You said that before. Why can't we?"
"I can't, Anita, I can't."
"Yes, you can. Who are you taking orders from, Phillip? Tell me. What is going on?" I was standing
nearly touching him, spitting each word into his chest, looking up at his face. It is always hard to be tough
when you have to look up to see someone's eyes. But I've been short all my life, and practice makes
perfect.
His hand slid around my shoulders. I pushed away from him, and his hands locked behind my back.
"Phillip, stop it."
I had my hands flat on his chest to keep our bodies from pressing together. His shirt was wet and cold.
His heart was hammering in his chest. I swallowed hard and said, "Your shirt's wet."
He released me so suddenly, I stumbled back from him. He drew the shirt over his head in one fluid
motion. Of course, he had a lot of practice in undressing himself. It would have been such a nice chest
without the scars.
He took one step towards me. "Stop, right where you are," I said. "What is this sudden change of
mood?"
"I like you; isn't that enough?"
I shook my head. "No, it isn't."



--------------------------------------- 116

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
He dropped the shirt to the floor. I watched it fall like it was important. Two steps and he was beside
me. Bathrooms are so small. I did the only thing I could think of - I stepped into the bathtub. Not very
dignified in high heels, but I wasn't pressed up against Phillip's chest. Anything was an improvement.
"Somebody is watching us," he said.
I turned, slowly, like a bad horror movie. Twilight hung against the sheer drapes, and a face peered out
of the coming dark. It was Harvey, Mr. Leather. The windows were too high for him to be standing on
the ground. Was he standing on a box? Or maybe they had little platforms at all the windows, so you
could watch the show.
I let Phillip help me out of the bathtub. I whispered, "Could he hear us?"
Phillip shook his head. His arms slid around my back again. "We are supposed to be lovers. Do you
want Harvey to stop believing that?"
"This is blackmail."
He smiled, dazzling, hold it in your hand and stroke it, sexy. My stomach tightened. He bent down, and I
didn't stop him. The kiss was everything advertised, full soft lips, a press of skin, a heated weight. His
hands tightened across my bare back, fingers kneading the muscles along the spine until I relaxed against
him.
He kissed the lobe of my ear, breath warm. Tongue flicked along the edge of my jaw. His mouth found
the pulse in my throat, his tongue searching for it, as if he were melting through the skin. Teeth scraped
over the beating of my neck. Teeth clamped down, tight, hurting.
I shoved him back, away. "Shit! You bit me."
His eyes were unfocused, dazed. A crimson drop stained his lower lip.
I touched a hand to my neck and came away with blood. "Damn you!"
He licked my blood off his mouth. "I think Harvey believes the performance. Now you're marked.
You've got the proof of what you are and why you came." He took a deep, shaking breath. "I won't have
to touch you again tonight. I'll see that no one else does either. I swear."
My neck was throbbing; a bite, a freaking bite! "Do you know how many germs are in the human
mouth?"
He smiled at me, still a little unfocused. "No," he said.
I shoved him out of the way and dabbed water on the cut. It looked like what it was, human teeth. It
wasn't a perfect set of bite marks, but it was close. "Damn you."
"We need to go out so you can hunt for clues." He had picked his shirt up from the floor and stood
there, holding it at his side. Bare tanned chest, leather pants, lips full like he'd been sucking on something.
Me. "You look like an ad for Rent A Gigolo," I said.
He shrugged. "Ready to go out?"



--------------------------------------- 117

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
I was still touching the wound. I tried to be angry and couldn't. I was scared. Scared of Phillip and what
he was, or wasn't. I hadn't expected it. Was he right? Would I be safe for the rest of the night? Or had he
just wanted to see what I tasted like?
He opened the door and waited for me. I went out. As we walked back to the living room, I realized
Phillip had distracted me from my question. Who was he working for? I still didn't know.
It was damn embarrassing that every time he took his shirt off, my brain went out to lunch. But no more;
I had had my first and last kiss from Phillip of the many scars. From now on I would remain the
tough-as-nails vampire slayer, not to be distracted by rippling muscles or nice eyes.
My fingers touched the bite mark. It hurt. No more Ms. Nice Guy. If Phillip came near me again, I was
going to hurt him. Of course, knowing Phillip, he'd probably enjoy it.
 
 
