36
I didn't want to go back to my apartment. Edward would be coming tonight. Tell him where Nikolaos
slept in daylight or he'd force the information from me. Complicated enough. Now, I thought he was my
murderer. Very complicated.
The best thing I could think of was to avoid him. That wouldn't work forever, but maybe I'd have a
brainstorm and figure it all out. All right, there wasn't much chance of that, but one could always hope.
Maybe Ronnie would have a message for me. Something helpful. God knows I needed all the help I
could get. I pulled the car into a service station that had a pay phone out front. I had one of those
high-tech answering machines that allowed me to read my messages without having to go home for them.
Maybe I could avoid Edward all night, if I slept in a hotel. Sigh. If I'd had any solid proof at all right that
minute, I'd have called the police.
I heard the tape whir and click; then, "Anita, it's Willie, they got Phillip. The guy you was with. They're
hurtin' him, bad! You gotta come-" The phone went dead, abruptly. Like he'd been cut off.
My stomach tightened. A second message came up. "This is you know who. You've heard Willie's
message. Come and get it, animator. I don't really have to threaten your pretty lover, do I?" Nikolaos's
laughter filled the phone, scratchy and distant with tape.
There was a loud click and Edward's voice came over the phone. "Anita, tell me where you are. I can
help you."
"They'll kill Phillip," I said. "Besides, you aren't on my side, remember."
"I'm the closest thing you've got to an ally."
"God help me, then." I hung up on him, hard. Phillip had tried to defend me last night. Now he was
paying for it. I yelled, "Dammit!"
A man pumping gas stared at me.
"What are you looking at?" I nearly yelled that, too. He dropped his eyes and concentrated very hard on
filling his tank with gas.



--------------------------------------- 158

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
I got behind the wheel of my car and sat there for a few minutes. I was so angry, I was shaking. I could
feel the tension in my teeth. Dammit. Dammit! I was too angry to drive. It wouldn't help Phillip if I got in a
car accident on the way.
I tried breathing deep gulps of air. It didn't help. I turned the key in the ignition. "No speeding, can't
afford to get stopped by the cops. Easy does it, Anita, easy does it." I talk to myself every once in a
while. Give myself very good advice. Sometimes I even take it.
I put the car in gear and drove out onto the road - carefully. Anger rode up my back and into my
shoulders and neck. I gripped the steering wheel too hard and found that my hands weren't quite healed.
Sharp little jabs of pain, but not enough. There wasn't enough pain in the whole world to get rid of the
anger.
Phillip was being hurt because of me. Just like Catherine and Ronnie. No more. No freaking more. I was
going to get Phillip, save him any way I could; then I was turning the whole blasted thing over to the
police. Without proof, yeah, without anything to back it up. I was bailing out before more people got
hurt.
The anger was almost enough to hide the fear behind it. If Nikolaos was tormenting Phillip for last night,
she might not be too happy with me either. I was going back down those stairs into the master's lair, at
night. Didn't seem real bright when you put it that way.
The anger was fading in a wash of cold, skin-shivering fear. "No!" I would not go in there afraid. I held
onto my anger with everything I had. This was the closest I'd come to hate in a long time. Hatred; now
there's an emotion that'll spread warmth through your body.
Most hatred is based on fear, one way or another. Yeah. I wrapped myself in anger, with a dash of hate,
and at the bottom of it all was an icy center of pure terror.
 
 
