23
I transferred all the smaller bags into one big bag, to leave one hand free for my gun. You'd be amazed
what a nice target you make juggling two armloads of shopping bags. First drop the bags - that is if one
of the handles isn't tangled over your wrist - then reach for your gun, pull, aim, fire. By the time you do all
that the bad guy has shot you twice and is walking away humming Dixie between his teeth.
I had been downright paranoid all afternoon, aware of everyone near me. Was I being followed? Had
that man looked too long at me? Was that woman wearing a scarf around her neck because she had bite
marks?
By the time I went for the car, my neck and shoulders were knotted into one painful ache. The most



--------------------------------------- 100

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
frightening thing I'd seen all afternoon had been the prices on the designer clothing.
The world was still bright blue and heat-soaked when I went for my car. It's easy to forget the passage
of time in a mall. It is air conditioned, climate controlled, a private world where nothing real touches you.
Disneyland for shopaholics.
I shut my packages in the trunk and watched the sky darken. I knew what fear felt like, a leaden balloon
in the pit of your gut. A nice, quiet dread.
I shrugged to loosen my shoulders. Rotated my neck until it popped. Better, but still tight. I needed some
aspirin. I had eaten in the mall, something I almost never did. The moment I smelled the food stalls, I had
gone for them, starved.
The pizza had tasted like thin cardboard with imitation tomato paste spread over it. The cheese had been
rubbery and tasteless. Yum, yum, mall food. Truth is, I love Corn Dog on a Stick and Mrs. Field's
Cookies.
I got one piece of pizza with just cheese, the way I like it, but one piece with everything. I hate
mushrooms and green peppers.
Sausage belongs on the breakfast table, not on pizza. I didn't know which bothered me more; that I
ordered it in the first place, or that I had eaten half of it before I realized what I was doing. I was craving
food that I normally hated. Why? One more question without an answer. Why did this one scare me?
My neighbor, Mrs. Pringle, was walking her dog back and forth on the grass in front of our apartment
building. I parked and unloaded my one overstuffed bag from the trunk.
Mrs. Pringle is over sixty, nearly six feet tall, stretched too thin with age. Her faded blue eyes are bright
and curious behind silver-rimmed glasses. Her dog Custard is a Pomeranian. He looks like a golden
dandelion fluff with cat feet.
Mrs. Pringle waved at me, and I was trapped. I smiled and walked over to them. Custard began
jumping up on me, like he had springs in his tiny legs. He looked like a wind-up toy. His yapping was
frequent and insistent, joyous.
Custard knows I don't like him, and in his twisted doggy mind he is determined to win me over. Or
maybe he just knows it irritates me. Whatever.
"Anita, you naughty girl, why didn't you tell me you had a beau?" Mrs. Pringle asked.
I frowned. "A beau?"
"A boyfriend," she said.
I didn't know what in the world she was talking about. "What do you mean?"
"Be coy if you wish, but when a young woman gives her apartment key to a man, it means something."
That lead balloon in my gut floated up a few inches. "Did you see someone going in my apartment
today?" I worked very hard at keeping my face and voice casual.



--------------------------------------- 101

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
"Yes, your nice young man. Very handsome."
I wanted to ask what he looked like, but if he was my boyfriend with a key to my apartment, I should
know. I couldn't ask. Very handsome - could it be Phillip? But why? "When did he stop by?"
"Oh, around two this afternoon. I was just coming out to walk Custard as he was going in."
"Did you see him leave?"
She was staring at me a little too hard. "No. Anita, was he not supposed to be in your home? Did I let a
burglar get away?"
"No." I managed a smile and almost a whole laugh. "I just didn't expect him today, that's all. If you see
anyone going into my apartment, just let them. I'll have friends going in and out for a few days."
Her eyes had narrowed; her delicate-boned hands were very still. Even Custard was sitting in the grass,
panting up at me. "Anita Blake," she said, and I was reminded that she was a retired schoolteacher, it
was that kind of voice. "What are you up to?"
"Nothing, really. I've just never given my key to a man before, and I'm a little unsure about it. Jittery." I
gave her my best wide-eyed innocent look. I resisted the urge to bat my eyes, but everything else was
working.
She crossed her arms over her stomach. I don't think she believed me. "If you are that nervous about
this young man, then he is not the right one for you. If he was, you wouldn't be jittery."
I felt light with relief. She believed. "You're probably right. Thank you for the advice. I may even take it."
I felt so good, I patted Custard on top of his furry little head.
I heard Mrs. Pringle say as I walked away, "Now, Custard, do your business and let's go upstairs."
For the second time in the same day I might have an intruder in my apartment. I walked down the
hushed corridor and drew my gun. A door opened. A man and two children walked out. I slipped my
gun and my hand in the shopping bag, pretending to search for something. I listened to their footsteps
echo down the stairs.
I couldn't just sit out here with a gun. Someone would call the police. Everybody was home from work,
eating dinner, reading the paper, playing with the kids. Suburban America was awake and alert. You
could not walk through it with a gun drawn.
I carried the shopping bag in my left hand in front of me, gun and right hand still inside it. If worse came
to worse, I'd shoot through the bag. I walked two doors past my apartment and dug my keys out of my
purse. I sat the shopping bag against the wall and transferred the gun to my left hand. I could shoot
left-handed, not as well, but it would have to do. I held the gun parallel to my thigh and hoped nobody
would come the wrong way down the hall and see it. I knelt by the door, keys cupped in my right hand,
quiet, not jingling this time. I learn fast.
I held the gun in front of my chest and inserted the keys. The lock clicked. I flinched and waited for
gunshots or noise, or something. Nothing. I slipped the keys into my pocket and switched the gun back
to my right hand. With just my wrist and part of my arm in front of the door, I turned the knob and
pushed hard.



--------------------------------------- 102

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
The door swung back and banged against the far wall, nobody there. No gunshots at the door. Silence.
I was crouched by the doorjamb, gun straight out, scanning the room. There was no one to see. The
chair, still facing the door, was empty this time. I would almost have been relieved to see Edward.
Footsteps pounded up the stairs at the end of the hall. I had to make a decision. I reached my left hand
back and got the shopping bag, never taking eyes or gun from the apartment. I scrambled inside, shoving
the bag ahead of me. I shoved the door closed, still crouched by the floor.
The aquarium heater clicked, then whirred, and I jumped. Sweat was oozing down my spine. The brave
vampire slayer. If they could only see me now. The apartment felt empty. There was no one here but me,
but just in case, I searched in closets, under beds. Playing Dirty Harry as I slammed doors and flattened
myself against walls. I felt like a fool, but I would have been a bigger fool to have trusted the apartment
was empty and been wrong.
There was a shotgun on the kitchen table, along with two boxes of ammo. A sheet of white typing paper
lay under it. In neat, black letters, it said, "Anita, you have twenty-four hours."
I stared at the note, reread it. Edward had been here. I don't think I breathed for a minute. I was
picturing my neighbor chatting with Edward. If Mrs. Pringle had hesitated at his lie, showed fear, would
he have killed her?
I didn't know. I just didn't know. Dammit! I was like a plague. Everyone around me was in danger, but
what could I do?
When in doubt, take a deep breath and keep moving. A philosophy I have lived by for years. I've heard
worse, really.
The note meant I had twenty-four hours before Edward came for the location of Nikolaos' daytime
retreat. If I didn't give it to him, I would have to kill him. I might not be able to do that.
I told Ronnie we were professionals, but if Edward was a professional, then I was an amateur. And so
was Ronnie.
Heavy damn sigh. I had to get dressed for the party. There just wasn't time to worry about Edward. I
had other problems tonight.
My answering machine was blinking, and I switched it on. Ronnie's voice first, telling me what she had
already told me about HAV. Evidently, she had called here first before contacting me at Dave's bar.
Then, "Anita, this is Phillip. I know the location for the party. Pick me up in front of Guilty Pleasures at
six-thirty. Bye."
The machine clicked, whirred, and was silent. I had two hours to dress and be there. Plenty of time. My
average time for makeup is fifteen minutes. Hair takes less, because all I do is run a brush through it.
Presto, I'm presentable.
I don't wear makeup often, so when I do, I always feel like it's too dark, too fake. But I always get
compliments on it, like, "Why don't you wear eye shadow more often? It really brings out your eyes," or
my favorite, "You look so much better in makeup." All the above implies that without makeup, you look
like a candidate for the spinster farm.



--------------------------------------- 103

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
One piece of makeup I don't use is base. I can't imagine smearing cake over my whole face. I own one
bottle of clear nail polish, but it isn't for my fingers, it's for my panty hose. If I wear a pair of hose once
without snagging them, I have had a very good day.
I stood in front of the full-length mirror in the bedroom. The top slipped over my head with one thin
strap. There was no back; it tied across the small of my back in a cute little bow. I could have done
without the bow, but otherwise it wasn't too bad. The top slipped into the black skirt, complete, dresslike
without a break. The tan bandages on my hands clashed with the dress. Oh, well. The skirt was full and
swirled when I moved. It had pockets.
Through those pockets were two thigh sheaths complete with silver knives. All I had to do was slip my
hands in and come out with a weapon. Neat. Sweat is an interesting thing when you're wearing a thigh
sheath. I had not been able to figure out how to hide a gun on me. I don't care how many times you've
seen women carry guns on a thigh holster on television, it is damn awkward. You walk like a duck with a
wet diaper on.
Hose and high-heeled black satin pumps completed the outfit. I had owned the shoes and the weapons;
everything else was new.
One other new item was a cute black purse with a thin strap that would hang across my shoulders,
leaving my hands free. I stuffed my smaller gun, the Firestar, into it. I know, I know, by the time I dug the
gun from the depths of the purse, the bad guys would be feasting on my flesh, but it was better than not
having it at all.
I slipped my cross on, and the silver looked good against the black top. Unfortunately, I doubted the
vampires would let me into the party wearing a blessed crucifix. Oh, well. I'd leave it in the car, along
with the shotgun and ammo.
Edward had kindly left a box near the table. What I assumed he had brought the gun up in. What had he
told Mrs. Pringle, that it was a present for me?
Edward had said twenty-four hours, but twenty-four hours from when? Would he be here at dawn,
bright and early, to torture the information out of me? Naw, Edward didn't strike me as a morning
person. I was safe until at least afternoon. Probably.
 
 
