12
I wanted to spit in that smooth, pale face, but I was afraid of what she would do to me. A drop of sweat
ran slowly down my face. I wanted to promise her anything, anything, if she would never touch me again.
Nikolaos didn't have to bespell me; all she had had to do was terrify me. The fear would control me. It
was what she was counting on. I could not let that happen.
"Get . . . out . . . of . . . my . . . face," I said.
She laughed. Her breath was warm and smelled like peppermint. Breath mints. But underneath the clean,
modern smell, very faint, was the scent of fresh blood. Old death. Recent murder.
I wasn't shivering anymore. I said, "Your breath smells like blood."
She jerked back, a hand going to her lips. It was such a human gesture that I laughed. Her dress



--------------------------------------- 50

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
brushed my face as she stood. One small, slippered foot kicked me in the chest.
The force tumbled me backwards, sharp pain, no air. For the second time that night, I couldn't breathe. I
lay flat on my stomach, gasping, swallowing past the pain. I hadn't heard anything break. Something
should have broken.
The voice thudded over me, hot enough to scald. "Get her out of here before I kill her myself."
The pain faded to a sharp ache. Air burned going down. My chest was tight, like I'd swallowed lead.
"Stay where you are, Jean."
Jean-Claude was standing away from the wall, halfway to me. Nikolaos commanded him to stillness with
one small, pale hand.
"Can you hear me, animator?"
"Yes." My voice was strangled. I couldn't get enough air to talk.
"Did I break something?" Her voice rose upward like a small bird.
I coughed, trying to clear my throat, but it hurt. I huddled around my chest while the ache faded. "No."
"Pity. But I suppose that would have slowed things down, or made you useless to us." She seemed to
think about the last as if that had had possibilities. What would they have done to me if something had
been broken? I didn't want to know.
"The police are aware of only four vampire murders. There have been six more."
I breathed in carefully. "Why not tell the police?"
"My dear animator, there are many among us who do not trust the human laws. We know how equal
human justice is for the undead." She smiled, and again there should have been a dimple. "Jean-Claude
was the fifth most powerful vampire in this city. Now he is the third."
I stared up at her, waiting for her to laugh, to say it was a joke. She continued to smile, the same exact
smile, like a piece of wax. Were they playing me for a fool? "Something has killed two master vampires?
Stronger than" - I had to swallow before continuing - "Jean-Claude?"
Her smile widened, flashing a distinct glimpse of fang. "You do grasp the situation quickly. I will give you
that. And perhaps that will make Jean-Claude's punishment less - severe. He recommended you to us,
did you know that?"
I shook my head and glanced at him. He had not moved, not even to breathe. Only his eyes looked at
me. Dark blue like midnight skies, almost fever-bright. He hadn't fed yet. Why wouldn't she let him feed?
"Why is he being punished?"
"Are you worried about him?" Her voice held a mockery of surprise. "My, my, my, aren't you angry that
he brought you into this?"



--------------------------------------- 51

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
I stared at him for a moment. I knew then what I saw in his eyes. It was fear. He was afraid of Nikolaos.
And I knew if I had any ally in this room, it was him. Fear will bind you closer than love, or hate, and it
works a hell of a lot quicker. "No," I said.
"No, no." She minced the word, crying it up and down, a child's imitation. "Fine." Her voice was
suddenly lower, grownup, shimmering with heat, angry. "We will give you a gift, animator. We have a
witness to the second murder. He saw Lucas die. He will tell you everything he saw, won't he, Zachary?"
She smiled at the sandy-haired man.
Zachary nodded. He stepped from around the chair and swept a low bow towards me. His lips were
too thin for his face, his smile crooked. Yet, the ice-green eyes stayed with me. I had seen that face
before, but where?
He strode to a small door. I hadn't seen it before. It was hidden in the flickering shadows of the torches,
but still I should have noticed. I glanced at Nikolaos, and she nodded at me, a smile curving her lips.
She had hidden the door from me without me knowing it. I tried to stand, pushing myself up with my
hands. Mistake. I gasped and stood as quickly as I dared. The hands were already stiff with bruises and
scrapes. If I lived until morning, I was going to be one sore puppy.
Zachary opened the door with a flourish, like a magician drawing a curtain. A man stood in the door. He
was dressed in the remains of a business suit. A slender figure, a little thick around the middle, too many
beers, too little exercise. He was maybe thirty.
"Come," Zachary said.
The man moved out into the room. His eyes were round with fear. A pinkie ring winked in the firelight.
He stank of fear and death.
He was still tanned, eyes still full. He could pass for human better than any vampire in the room, but he
was more a corpse than any of them. It was just a matter of time. I raised the dead for a living. I knew a
zombie when I saw one.
"Do you remember Nikolaos?" Zachary asked.
The zombie's human eyes grew large, and the color drained from his face. Damn, he looked human.
"Yes."
"You will answer Nikolaos's questions, do you understand that?"
"I understand." His forehead wrinkled as if he were concentrating on something, something he couldn't
quite remember.
"He would not answer our questions before. Would you?" Nikolaos said.
The zombie shook its head, eyes staring at her with a sort of fearful fascination. Birds must look at
snakes that way.
"We tortured him, but he was most stubborn. Then before we could continue our work, he hung himself.
We really should have taken his belt away." She sounded wistful, pouty. The zombie was staring at her.
"I . . . hung myself. I don't understand. I . . ."



--------------------------------------- 52

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
"He doesn't know?" I asked.
Zachary smiled. "No, he doesn't. Isn't it fabulous? You know how hard it is to make one so human, that
he forgets he has died."
I knew. It meant somebody had a lot of power. Zachary was staring at the confused undead like he was
a work of art. Precious. "You raised him?" I asked.
Nikolaos said, "Did you not recognize a fellow animator?" She laughed, lightly, a breeze of far-off bells.
I glanced at Zachary's face. He was staring at me, eyes memorizing me. Face blank, with a thread of
something making the skin under one eye jump. Anger, fear? Then he smiled at me, brilliant, echoing.
Again there was that shock of recognition.
"Ask your question, Nikolaos. He has to answer now."
"Is that true?" she asked me.
I hesitated, surprised that she had turned to me. "Yes."
"Who killed the vampire, Lucas?"
He stared at her, face crumbling. His breathing was shallow and too fast.
"Why doesn't he answer me?"
"The question is too complex," Zachary explained. "He may not remember who Lucas is."
"Then you ask him the questions, and I expect him to answer." Her voice was warm with threat.
Zachary turned with a flourish, spreading arms wide. "Ladies and gentlemen, behold, the undead." He
grinned at his own joke. No one else even smiled. I didn't get it either.
"Did you see a vampire murdered?"
The zombie nodded. "Yes."
"How was he murdered?"
"Heart torn out, head cut off." His voice was paper-thin with fear.
"Who tore out his heart?"
The zombie started to shake his head over and over, quick, jerky movements. "Don't know, don't
know."
"Ask him what killed the vampire," I said.
Zachary shot me a look. His eyes were green glass. Bones stood out in his face. Rage sculpted him into
a skeleton with canvas skin.



--------------------------------------- 53

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
"This is my zombie, my business!"
"Zachary," Nikolaos said.
He turned to her, movements stiff.
"It is a good question. A reasonable question." Her voice was low, calm. No one was fooled. Hell must
be full of voices like that. Deadly, but oh so reasonable.
"Ask her question, Zachary."
He turned back to the zombie, hands balled into fists. I didn't understand where the anger was coming
from. "What killed the vampire?"
"Don't understand." The voice held a knife's edge of panic.
"What sort of creature tore out the heart? Was it a human?"
"No."
"Was it another vampire?"
"No."
This was why zombies still didn't do well in court. You had to lead them by the hand, so to speak, to get
answers. Lawyers accused you of leading the witness. Which was true, but it didn't mean the zombie was
lying.
"Then what killed the vampire?"
Again that head shaking, back and forth, back and forth. He opened his mouth, but no sound came out.
He seemed to be choking on the words, as if someone had stuffed paper down his throat. "Can't!"
"What do you mean, can't?" Zachary screamed it at him and slapped him across the face. The zombie
threw up its arms to cover its head. "You . . . will . . . answer . . . me." Each word was punctuated with a
slap.
The zombie fell to its knees and started to cry. "Can't!"
"Answer me, damn you!" He kicked the zombie, and it collapsed to the ground, rolling into a tight ball.
"Stop it." I walked towards them. "Stop it!"
He kicked the zombie one last time and turned on me. "It's my zombie! I can do what I want with him."
"That used to be a human being. It deserves more respect than this." I knelt by the crying zombie. I felt
Zachary looming over me.
Nikolaos said, "Leave her alone, for now."



--------------------------------------- 54

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
He stood there like an angry shadow pressing over my back. I touched the zombie's arm. It flinched.
"It's all right. I'm not going to hurt you." Not going to hurt you. He had killed himself to escape. But not
even the grave was sanctuary enough. Before tonight I would have said no animator would have raised
the dead for such a purpose. Sometimes the world is a worse place than I want to know about.
I had to peel the zombie's hands from his face, then turn the face up to stare at me. One look was
enough. Dark eyes were incredibly wide, fear, such fear. A thin line of spittle oozed from his mouth.
I shook my head and stood. "You've broken him."
"Damn right. No damn zombie is going to make a fool of me. He'll answer the questions."
I whirled to stare at the man's angry eyes. "Don't you understand? You've broken his mind."
"Zombies don't have minds."
"That's right, they don't. All they have, and for a very short time, is the memory of what they were. If you
treat them well, they can retain their personalities for maybe a week, a little more, but this . . ." I pointed
at the zombie, then spoke to Nikolaos. "Ill treatment will speed the process. Shock will destroy it."
"What are you saying, animator?"
"This sadist" - I jabbed a thumb at Zachary - "has destroyed the zombie's mind. It won't be answering
any more questions. Not for anyone, not ever."
Nikolaos turned like a pale storm. Her eyes were blue glass. Her words filled the room with a soft
burning. "You arrogant.. ." A tremor ran through her body, from small, slippered feet to long
white-blonde hair. I waited for the wooden chair to catch fire and blaze from the fine heat of her anger.
The anger stripped away the child puppet. Bones stood out against white paper skin. Hands grabbed at
the air, clawed and straining. One hand dug into the arm of her chair. The wood whined, then cracked.
The sound echoed against the stone walls. Her voice burned along our skin. "Get out of here before I kill
you. Take the woman and see her safely back to her car. If you fail me again, large or small, I will tear
your throat out, and my children will bathe in a shower of your blood."
Nicely graphic; a little melodramatic, but nicely graphic. I didn't say it out loud. Hell, I wasn't even
breathing. Any movement might attract her. All she needed was an excuse.
Zachary seemed to sense it as well. He bowed, eyes never leaving her face. Then without a word he
turned and began to walk towards the small door. His movements were unhurried, as if death wasn't
staring holes in his back. He paused at the open door and made a motion as if to escort me through the
door. I glanced at Jean-Claude, still standing where she had left him. I had not asked about Catherine's
safety; there had been no opportunity. Things were happening too fast. I opened my mouth; maybe
Jean-Claude guessed.
He silenced me with a wave of a slender, pale hand. The hand seemed as white as the lace on his shirt.
His eye sockets were filled with blue flame. The long, black hair floated around his suddenly death-pale
face. His humanity was folding away. His power flared across my skin, raising the hairs on my arms. I
hugged myself, staring at the creature that had been Jean-Claude.
"Run!" He screamed it at me, voice slashing into me. I should have been bleeding from it. I hesitated and



--------------------------------------- 55

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
caught sight of Nikolaos. She was levitating, ever so slowly, upward. Milkweed hair danced around her
skeleton head. She raised a clawed hand. Bones and veins were caught in the amber of her skin.
Jean-Claude whirled, claw-hand slashing out at me. Something slammed me into the wall and half out the
door. Zachary caught my arm and pulled me through.
I twisted free of him. The door thudded closed in my face. I whispered, "Sweet Jesus."
Zachary was at the foot of a narrow stairway, leading up. He held his hand out to me. His face was slick
with sweat. "Please!" He fluttered his hand at me like a trapped bird.
A smell oozed from under the door. It was the smell of rotting corpses. The smell of bloated bodies, of
skin cracked and ripening in the sun, of blood slowed and rotting in quiet veins. I gagged and backed
away.
"Oh, God," Zachary whispered. He put one hand over his mouth and nose, the other still held out to me.
I ignored his hand but stood beside him on the stairs. He opened his mouth to say something, but the
door creaked. The wood shook and hammered, like a giant wind was beating against it. Wind whooshed
from under the door. My hair streamed in a tornado wind. We backed up a few steps while the heavy
wooden door fluttered and kicked against a wind that couldn't be there. A storm indoors? The sick smell
of rotting flesh bled into the wind. We looked at each other. There was that moment of recognition of us
against them, or it. We turned and started running like we were attached by wires.
There couldn't be a storm behind that door. There couldn't be a wind chasing us up the narrow stone
stairs. There were no rotting corpses in that room. Or were there? God, I didn't want to know. I did not
want to know.
 
 
