34
The Church of Eternal Life, main building, is just off Page Avenue, far from the District. The Church
doesn't like to be associated with the riffraff. Vampire strip club, Circus of the Damned, tsk-tsk. How
shocking. No, they think of themselves as mainstream undead.
The church itself is set in an expanse of naked ground. Small trees struggled to grow into big trees and
shade the startling white of the church. It seemed to glow in the hot July sunshine, like a land-bound
moon.
I pulled into the parking lot and parked on the shiny new black asphalt. Only the ground looked normal,
bare reddish earth churned to mud. The grass had never had a chance.
"Pretty," Ronnie said. She nodded in the building's direction.
I shrugged. "If you say so. Frankly, I never get used to the generic effect."
"Generic effect?" she asked.
"The stained glass is all abstract color. No scenes of Christ, no saints, no holy symbols. Clean and pure
as a wedding gown fresh out of plastic."
She got out of the car, sunglasses sliding into place. She stared at the church, arms crossed over her
stomach. "It looks like they just unwrapped it and haven't put the trimmings on yet."
"Yeah, a church without God. What is wrong with this picture?"
She didn't laugh. "Will anybody be up this time of day?"
"Oh, yes, they recruit during the day."
"Recruit?"
"You know, go door to door, like the Mormons and the Jehovah's Witnesses."
She stared at me. "You've got to be kidding?"
"Do I look like I'm kidding?"
She shook her head. "Door-to-door vampires. How" - she wiggled her hands back and forth -
"convenient."



--------------------------------------- 147

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
"Yep," I said. "Let's go see who's minding the office."
Broad white steps led up to huge double doors. One of the doors was open; the other had a sign that
read, "Enter Friend and be at Peace." I fought an urge to tear down the sign and stomp on it.
They were preying on one of the most basic fears of man - death. Everyone fears death. People who
don't believe in God have a hard time with death being it. Die and you cease to exist. Poof. But at the
Church of Eternal Life, they promise just what the name says. And they can prove it. No leap of faith.
No waiting around. No questions left unanswered. How does it feel to be dead? Just ask a fellow church
member.
Oh, and you'll never grow old either. No face-lifts, no tummy tucks, just eternal youth. Not a bad deal,
as long as you don't believe in the soul.
As long as you don't believe the soul becomes trapped in the vampire's body and can never reach
Heaven. Or worse yet, that vampires are inherently evil and you are condemned to Hell. The Catholic
Church sees voluntary vampirism as a kind of suicide. I tend to agree. Though the Pope also
excommunicated all animators, unless we ceased raising the dead. Fine; I became Episcopalian.
Polished wooden pews ran in two wide rows up towards what would have been an altar. There was a
pulpit, but I couldn't call it an altar. It was just a blank blue wall surrounded by more white upsweeping
walls.
The windows were red and blue stained glass. The sunlight sparkled through them, making delicate
colored patterns on the white floor.
"Peaceful," Ronnie said.
"So are graveyards."
She smiled at me. "I'd thought you'd say that."
I frowned at her. "No teasing; we're here on business."
"What exactly do you want me to do?"
"Just back me up; look menacing if you can manage it. Look for clues."
"Clues?" she asked.
"Yeah, you know, clues, ticket stubs, half-burned notes, leads."
"Oh, those."
"Quit grinning at me, Ronnie."
She adjusted her sunglasses and did her best "cold" look. She's pretty good at it. Thugs have been
known to shrivel at twenty paces. We would see how it worked on church members.
There was a small door to one side of the "altar." It led into a carpeted hallway. The air-conditioned



--------------------------------------- 148

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
hush enveloped us. There were bathrooms to the left, and an open room to the right. Perhaps this is
where they had . . . coffee after services. No, probably not coffee. A rousing sermon followed by a little
blood, perhaps?
The offices were marked with a little sign that said "Office." How clever. There was an outer office, the
proverbial secretarial desk and etc.... A young man sat behind the desk. Slender, short brown hair
carefully cut. Wire-frame glasses decorated a pair of really lovely brown eyes. There was a healing bite
mark on his throat.
He rose and came around the desk, hand extended, smiling at us. "Greetings, friends, I'm Bruce. How
may I help you today?"
The handshake was firm but not too firm, strong but not overbearing, a friendly lingering touch, but not
sexual. Really good car salesmen shake hands like that. Real estate brokers, too. I have this nice little
soul, hardly used at all. The price is right. Trust me. If his big brown eyes had looked any more sincere, I
would have given him a doggie biscuit and patted his head.
"I would like to set up an appointment to speak with Malcolm," I said.
He blinked once. "Have a seat."
I sat. Ronnie leaned against the wall, to one side of the door. Hands folded, looking cool and
bodyguardish.
Bruce went back around his desk, after offering us coffee, and sat with folded hands. "Now, Miss. . ."
"Ms. Blake."
He didn't flinch; he hadn't heard of me. How fleeting fame. "Ms. Blake, why do you wish to meet with
the head of our church? We have many competent and understanding counselors that will help you make
your decision."
I smiled at him. I'll just bet you do, you little pipsqueak. "I think Malcolm will want to speak with me. I
have information about the vampire murders."
His smile slipped. "If you have such information, then go to the police."
"Even if I have proof that certain members of your church are doing the murders?" A small bluff,
otherwise known as a lie.
He swallowed, fingers pressing the top of his desk until the fingertips turned white. "I don't understand. I
mean . . ."
I smiled at him. "Let's just face it, Bruce. You are not equipped to handle murder. It isn't in your training,
now is it?"
"Well, no, but . . ."
"Then just give me a time to come back tonight and see Malcolm."
"I don't know. I . . ."



--------------------------------------- 149

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
"Don't worry about it. Malcolm is the head of the church. He'll take care of it."
He was nodding, too rapidly. His eyes flicked to Ronnie, then back to me. He flipped through a
leatherbound day planner on his desk. "Nine, tonight." He picked up a pen, poised and ready. "If you'll
give me your full name, I'll pencil you in."
I started to point out that he wasn't using a pencil, but decided to let it slide. "Anita Blake."
He still didn't recognize the name. So much for me being the terror of vampireland. "And this is
pertaining to?" He was regaining his professionalism.
I stood up. "Murder, it's pertaining to murder."
"Oh, yes, I . . ." He scribbled something down. "Nine tonight, Anita Blake, murder." He frowned down
at the note as if there were something wrong with it.
I decided to help him out. "Don't frown so. You've got the message right."
He stared up at me. He looked a little pale.
"I'll be back. Make sure he gets the message."
Bruce nodded again, too fast, eyes large behind his glasses.
Ronnie opened the door, and I preceded her out. She brought up the rear like a bad-movie bodyguard.
When we were out into the main church again, she laughed. "I think we scared him."
"Bruce scares easy."
She nodded, eyes shining.
The barest mention of violence, murder, and he had fallen apart. When he "grew up," he was going to be
a vampire. Sure.
The sunshine was nearly blinding after the dimness of the church. I squinted, putting a hand over my
eyes. I caught movement from the corner of my eye.
Ronnie screamed, "Anita!"
Everything slowed down. I had plenty of time to stare at the man and the gun in his hands. Ronnie
smashed into me, carrying us both down and back through the church door. Bullets thunked into the door
where I'd been.
Ronnie scrambled behind me, near the wall. I had my gun out and lay on my side pressed against the
door. My heart was thundering in my ears. Yet I could hear everything. The wrinkle of my windbreaker
was like static. I heard the man walk up the steps. The son of a bitch was gonna keep coming.
I inched forward. He walked up the steps. His shadow fell inside the door. He wasn't even trying to
hide. Maybe he thought I wasn't armed. He was about to learn different.



--------------------------------------- 150

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
Bruce called, "What's going on here?"
Ronnie yelled, "Get back inside."
I kept my eyes on the door. I would not get shot because of Bruce distracted me. Nothing was
important but that shadow in the door, the halting footsteps. Nothing.
The man walked right into it. Gun in his hand, eyes searching the church. Amateur.
I could have touched him with the barrel of my gun. "Don't move." "Freeze" always sounds so
melodramatic. Don't move, short, to the point. "Don't move," I said.
He turned just his head, slow, towards me. "You're The Executioner." His voice was soft, hesitant.
Was I supposed to deny it? Maybe. If he had come here to kill The Executioner, definitely. "No," I said.
He started to turn. "Then it must be her." He was turning towards Ronnie. Shit.
He raised his arm and started to point.
"Don't!" Ronnie screamed.
Too late. I fired, point-blank into his chest. Ronnie's shot echoed mine. The impact raised him off his feet
and sent him staggering backwards. Blood blossomed on his shirt. He slammed into the half-opened
door and fell flat on his back through it. All I could see were his legs.
I hesitated, listening. I couldn't hear any movement. I eased around the door. He wasn't moving, but the
gun was still clutched in his hand. I pointed my gun at him and stalked to him. If he had so much as
twitched, I would have hit him again.
I kicked the gun out of his hand and checked the pulse in his neck. Nada, zip. Dead.
I use ammunition that can take out vampires, if I get a lucky shot, and if they're not ancient. The bullet
had made a small hole on the side it went in, but the other side of his chest was gone. The bullet had done
what it was supposed to do; expand, and make a very big exit hole.
His neck lolled to one side. Two bite marks decorated his neck. Dammit! Bite marks or not, he was
dead. There wasn't enough left of his heart to thread a needle. A lucky shot. A stupid amateur with a gun.
Ronnie was leaning in the doorway, looking pale. Her gun was pointed at the dead man. Her arms
trembled ever so slightly.
She almost smiled. "I don't usually carry a gun during the day, but I knew I'd be with you."
"Is that an insult?" I asked.
"No," she said, "reality."
I couldn't argue with that. I sat down on the cool stone steps; my knees felt weak. The adrenaline was
draining out of me, like water from a broken cup.



--------------------------------------- 151

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
Bruce was in the doorway, ice pale. "He . . . he tried to kill you." His voice cracked with fear.
"Do you recognize him?" I asked.
He shook his head over and over again, rapid jerky movements.
"Are you sure?"
"We . . . we do not . . . condone violence." He swallowed hard, his voice a cracking whisper. "I don't
know him."
The fear seemed genuine. Maybe he didn't know him, but that didn't mean the dead man wasn't a
member of the church. "Call the police, Bruce."
He just stood there, staring at the corpse.
"Call the cops, okay?"
He stared at me, eyes glazed. I wasn't sure if he heard me or not, but he went back inside.
Ronnie sat down beside me, staring out at the parking lot. Blood was running down the white steps in
tiny rivulets of scarlet.
"Jesus," she whispered.
"Yeah." I still held my gun loose-gripped in my hand. The danger seemed to be over. Guess I could put
away the gun. "Thanks for pushing me out of the way," I said.
"You're welcome." She took a deep, shaky breath. "Thanks for shooting him before he shot me."
"Don't mention it. Besides, you got a piece of him, too."
"Don't remind me."
I stared at her. "You all right?"
"No, I'm well and truly scared."
"Yeah." Of course, all Ronnie had to do was stay away from me. I seemed to be the free-fire zone. A
walking, talking menace to my friends and coworkers. Ronnie could have died today, and it would have
been my fault. She had been a few seconds slower to shoot than I was. Those few seconds could have
cost her her life. Of course, if she hadn't been here today, I might have died. One bullet in the chest, and
my gun wouldn't have done me a hell of a lot of good.
I heard the distant whoop-whoop of police sirens. They must have been damn close, or maybe it was
another killing. Possible. Would the police believe he was just a fanatic trying to kill The Executioner?
Maybe. Dolph wouldn't buy it.
The sunshine pressed down around us like bright yellow plastic. Neither of us said a word. Maybe there
was nothing left to say. Thank you for saving my life. You're welcome. What else was there?



--------------------------------------- 152

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
I felt light and empty, almost peaceful. Numb. I must be getting close to the truth, whatever that was.
People were trying to kill me. It was a good sign. Sort of. It meant I knew something important.
Important enough to kill for. The trouble was, I didn't know what it was I was supposed to know.
 
 
