17
I had two choices after Ronnie left: I could go back to sleep, not a bad idea; or I could start solving the
case that everyone was so eager for me to work on. I could get by on four hours sleep, for a while. I
could not last nearly as long if Aubrey tore my throat out. Guess I would go to work.
It is hard to wear a gun in St. Louis in the summertime. Shoulder or hip holster, you have the same
problem. If you wear a jacket to cover the gun, you melt in the heat. If you keep the gun in your purse,
you get killed, because no woman can find anything in her purse in under twelve minutes. It is a rule.



--------------------------------------- 72

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
No one had been shooting at me yet; I was encouraged by that. But I had also been kidnapped and
nearly killed. I did not plan on it happening again without a fight. I could bench press a hundred pounds,
not bad, not bad at all. But when you only weigh a hundred and six, it puts you at a disadvantage. I
would bet on me against any human bad guy my size. Trouble was, there just weren't many bad guys my
size. And vampires, well, unless I could bench press trucks, I was outclassed. So a gun.
I finally settled on a less than professional look. The t-shirt was oversize, hitting me at mid-thigh. It
billowed around me. The only thing that saved it was the picture on the front, penguins playing beach
volleyball, complete with kiddie penguins making sand castles to one side. I like penguins. I had bought
the shirt to sleep in and never planned to wear it where people could see me. As long as the fashion
police didn't see me, I was safe.
I looped a belt through a pair of black shorts for my inside-the-pant holster. It was an Uncle Mike's
Sidekick and I was very fond of it, but it was not for the Browning. I had a second gun for comfort and
concealability: a Firestar, a compact little 9mm with a seven-shot magazine.
White jogging socks, with tasteful blue stripes that matched the blue leather piping on my white Nikes,
completed the outfit. It made me look and feel about sixteen, an awkward sixteen, but when I turned to
the mirror there was no hint of the gun on my belt. The shirt fell out and around it, invisible.
My upper body is slender, petite if you will, muscular and not bad to look at. Unfortunately, my legs are
about five inches too short to ever be America's ideal legs. I will never have skinny thighs, nor anything
short of muscular calves. The outfit emphasized my legs and hid everything else, but I had my gun and I
wouldn't melt in the heat. Compromise is an imperfect art.
My crucifix hung inside my shirt, but I added a small charm bracelet to my left wrist. Three small crosses
dangled from the silver chain. My scars also were in plain sight, but in the summer I try to pretend they
aren't there. I cannot face the thought of wearing long sleeves in hundred-degree weather with
hundred-percent humidity. My arms would fall off. The scars really aren't the first thing you notice with
my arms bare. Really.
Animators, Inc., had new offices. We'd been here only three months. There was a psychologist's office
across from us, nothing less than a hundred an hour; a plastic surgeon down the hall; two lawyers; one
marriage counselor, and a real estate company. Four years ago Animators, Inc., had worked out of a
spare room above a garage. Business was good.
Most of that good luck was due to Bert Vaughn, our boss. He was a businessman, a showman, a
moneymaker, a scalawag, and a borderline cheat. Nothing illegal, not really, but . . . Most people choose
to think of themselves as white hats, good guys. A few people wear black hats and enjoy it. Grey was
Bert's color. Sometimes I think if you cut him, he'd bleed green, fresh-minted money.
He had turned what was an unusual talent, an embarrassing curse, or a religious experience, raising the
dead, into a profitable business. We animators had the talent, but Bert knew how to make it pay. It was
hard to argue with that. But I was going to try.
The reception room's wallpaper is pale, pale green with small oriental designs done in greens and
browns. The carpet is thick and soft green, too pale to be grass, but it tries. Plants are everywhere.
A Ficus benjium grows to the right of the door, slender as a willow with small leather green leaves. It
nearly curls around the chair in front of its pot. A second tree grows in the far corner, tall and straight
with the stiff spiky tops of palm trees - Dracaena marginta . Or that's what it says on the tags tied to the



--------------------------------------- 73

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
spindly trunks. Both trees brush the ceiling. Dozens of smaller plants are pushed and potted in every
spare corner of the soft green room.
Bert thinks the pastel green is soothing, and the plants give it that homey touch. I think it looks like an
unhappy marriage between a mortuary and a plant shop.
Mary, our day secretary, is over fifty. How much over is her own business. Her hair is short and does
not move in the wind. A carton of hair spray sees to that. Mary is not into the natural look. She has two
grown sons and four grandchildren. She gave me her best professional smile as I came through the door.
"May I help . . . Oh, Anita, I didn't think you were due in until five."
"I'm not, but I need to speak to Bert and get some things from my office."
She frowned down at her appointment book, our appointment book. "Well, Jamison is in your office
right now with a client." There are only three offices in our little area. One belongs to Bert, and the other
two rotate between the rest of us. Most of our work is done in the field, or rather the graveyard, so we
never really need our offices all at the same time. It worked like time-sharing a condo.
"How long will the client be?"
Mary glanced down at her notes. "It's a mother whose son is thinking about joining the Church of Eternal
Life."
"Is Jamison trying to talk him into it or out of it?"
"Anita!" Mary scolded me, but it was the truth. The Church of Eternal Life was the vampire church. The
first church in history that could guarantee you eternal life, and prove it. No waiting around. No mystery.
Just eternity on a silver platter. Most people don't believe in their immortal souls anymore. It isn't popular
to worry about Heaven and Hell, and whether you are an absolutely good person. So the Church was
gaining followers all over the place. If you didn't believe that it destroyed your soul, what did you have to
lose? Daylight. Food. Not much to give up.
It was the soul part that bothered me. My immortal soul is not for sale, not even for eternity. You see, I
knew vampires could die. I had proved it. No one seemed curious as to what happened to a vampire's
soul when it died. Could you be a good vampire and go to Heaven? Somehow that didn't quite work for
me.
"Is Bert with a client, too?"
She glanced once more at the appointment book. "No, he's free." She looked up and smiled, as if she
was pleased to be able to help me. Maybe she was.
It is true that Bert took the smallest of the three offices. The walls are a soft pastel blue, the carpet two
colors darker. Bert thinks it soothes the clients. I think it's like standing inside a blue ice cube.
Bert didn't match the small blue office. There is nothing small about Bert. Six-four, broad shoulders, a
college athlete's figure getting a little soft around the middle. His white hair is close-cut over small ears. A
boater's tan forces his pale eyes and hair into sharp contrast. His eyes are a nearly colorless grey, like
dirty window glass. You have to work very hard to make dirty grey eyes shine, but they were shining
now. Bert was practically beaming at me. It was a bad sign.



--------------------------------------- 74

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
"Anita, what a pleasant surprise. Have a sit." He waved a business envelope at me. "We got the check
today."
"Check?" I asked.
"For looking into the vampire murders."
I had forgotten. I had forgotten that somewhere in all this I had been promised money. It seemed
ridiculous, obscene, that Nikolaos would make everything better with money. From the look on Bert's
face, a lot of money.
"How much?"
"Ten thousand dollars." He stretched each word out, making it last.
"It isn't enough."
He laughed. "Anna, getting greedy in your old age. I thought that was my job."
"It isn't enough for Catherine's life, or mine."
His grin wilted slightly. His eyes looked wary, as if I was about to tell him there was no Easter Bunny. I
could almost hear him wondering if he would have to return the check.
"What are you talking about, Anita?"
I told him, with a few minor revisions. No "Circus of the Damned." No blue fire. No first vampire mark.
When I got to the part about Aubrey smashing me into the wall, he said, "You are kidding."
"Want to see the bruises?"
I finished the story and watched his solemn, square face. His large, blunt-fingered hands were folded on
his desk. The check was lying beside him atop his neat pile of manila folders. His face was attentive,
concerned. Empathy never worked well on Bert's face. I could always see the wheels moving. The
angles calculating.
"Don't worry, Bert, you can cash the check."
"Now, Anita, that wasn't..."
"Save it."
"Anita, truly I would never purposefully endanger you."
I laughed. "Bull."
"Anita!" He looked shocked, small eyes widening, one hand touching his chest. Mr. Sincerity.
"I'm not buying, so save the bullshit for clients. I know you too well."



--------------------------------------- 75

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
He smiled then. It was his only genuine smile. The real Bert Vaughn please stand up. His eyes gleamed
but not with warmth, more with pleasure. There is something measuring, obscenely knowledgeable, about
Bert's smile. As if he knew the darkest thing you had ever done and would gladly keep silent - for a
price.
There was something a little frightening about a man who knew he was not a nice person and didn't give
a damn. It went against everything America holds dear. We are taught above all else to be nice, to be
liked, to be popular. A person who has set aside all that is a maverick and a potentially dangerous human
being.
"What can Animators, Inc., do to help?"
"I've already got Ronnie working on some things. I think the fewer people involved, the fewer people in
danger."
"You always were a humanitarian."
"Unlike some people I could mention."
"I had no idea what they wanted."
"No, but you knew how I felt about vampires."
He gave me a smile that said, "I know your secret, I know your darkest dreams." That was Bert.
Budding blackmailer.
I smiled back at him, friendly. "If you ever send me a vampire client again without running it by me first,
I'll quit."
"And go where?"
"I'll take my client list with me, Bert. Who is the one that does the radio interviews? Who did the articles
focus on? You made sure it was me, Bert. You thought I was the most marketable of all of us. The most
harmless-looking, the most appealing. Like a puppy at the pound. When people call Animators, Inc.,
who do they ask for?"
His smile was gone, eyes like winter ice. "You wouldn't make it without me."
"The question is, would you make it without me?"
"I'd make it."
"So would I"
We stared at each other for a long space of moments. Neither of us was willing to look away, to blink
first. Bert started to smile, still staring into my eyes. The edges of a smile began to tug at my mouth. We
laughed together and that was that.
"All right, Anita, no more vampires."
I stood. "Thank you."



--------------------------------------- 76

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
"Would you really quit?" His face was all laughing sincerity, a tasteful, pleasant mask.
"I don't believe in idle threats, Bert. You know that."
"Yes," he said, "I know that. I honestly didn't know this job would endanger your life."
"Would it have made a difference?"
He thought about it for a minute, then laughed. "No, but I would have charged more."
"You keep making money, Bert. That's what you're good at."
"Amen."
I left him so he could fondle the check in privacy. Maybe chuckle over it. It was blood money, no pun
intended. Somehow, I didn't think that bothered Bert. It bothered me.
 
 
