20
Rebecca Miles lived in South City's Dogtown. The streets were all named for states: Texas, Mississippi,
Indiana. The building was blind, most of the windows boarded up. The grass was tall as an elephant's
eye, but not half so beautiful. A block over were expensive rehabs full of yuppies and politicians. There



--------------------------------------- 86

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
were no yuppies on Rebecca's block.
Her apartment was on a long, narrow corridor. There was no air conditioning in the hallway, and the
heat was like chest-high fur, thick and warm. One dim light bulb gleamed over the threadbare carpeting.
In places the off-green walls were patched with white plaster, but it was clean. The smell of pine-scented
Lysol was thick and almost nauseating in the small, dark hallway. You could probably have eaten off the
carpeting if you had wanted to, but you would have gotten fuzzies in your mouth. No amount of Lysol
would get rid of carpet fuzzies.
As we had discussed in the car, Phillip knocked on the door. The idea was that he would calm any
misgivings she might have about The Executioner coming into her humble abode. It took fifteen minutes of
knocking and waiting before we heard someone moving around behind the door.
The door opened as far as the chain would allow. I couldn't see who answered the door. A woman's
voice, thick with sleep, said, "Phillip, what are you doing here?"
"Can I come in for a few minutes?" he asked. I couldn't see his face, but I would have bet everything I
owned that he was flashing her one of his infamous smiles.
"Sure; sorry, you woke me up." The door closed, and the chain rattled. The door reopened, wide. I still
couldn't see around Phillip. So I guess Rebecca didn't see me either.
Phillip walked in, and I followed behind him before the door could close. The apartment was ovenlike, a
gasping, stranded-fish heat. The darkness should have made it cooler, but instead made it claustrophobic.
Sweat trickled down my face.
Rebecca Miles stood holding onto the door. She was thin, with lifeless dark hair falling straight to her
shoulders. High cheekbones clung to the skin of her face. She was nearly overwhelmed by the white robe
she wore. Delicate was the phrase, fragile. Small, dark eyes blinked at me. It was dim in the apartment,
thick drapes cutting out the light. She had only seen me once, shortly after Maurice's death.
"Did you bring a friend?" she asked. She shut the door, and we were in near darkness.
"Yes," Phillip said. "This is Anita Blake . . ."
Her voice came out small and choked. "The Executioner?"
"Yes, but. . .
She opened her small mouth and shrieked. She threw herself at me, hands clawing and slapping. I
braced and covered my face with my forearms. She fought like a girl, all open-handed slaps, scratches,
and flailing arms. I grabbed her wrist and used her own momentum to pull her past me. She stumbled to
her knees with a little help. I had her right arm in a joint lock. It puts pressure on the elbow, it hurts, and a
little extra push will snap the arm. Most people don't fight well after you break their arm at the elbow.
I didn't want to break the woman's arm. I didn't want to hurt her at all. There were two bloody scratches
on my arm where she had gotten me. I guess I was lucky she hadn't had a gun.
She tried to move, and I pressed on the arm. I felt her tremble. Her breath was coming in huge gasps.
"You can't kill him! You can't! Please, please don't." She started to cry, thin shoulders shaking inside the
too-big robe. I stood there, holding her arm, causing her pain.



--------------------------------------- 87

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
I released her arm, slowly, and stepped back out of reach. I hoped she didn't attack again. I didn't want
to hurt her, and I didn't want her to hurt me. The scratches were beginning to sting.
Rebecca Miles wasn't going to try again. She huddled against the door, thin, starved hands locked
around her knees. She sobbed, gasping for air, "You . . . can't . . . kill him. Please!" She started to rock
back and forth, hugging herself tight as if she might shatter, like weak glass.
Jesus, some days I hate my job. "Talk to her, Phillip. Tell her we didn't come here to hurt anyone."
Phillip knelt beside her. He kept his hands at his sides as he talked to her. I didn't hear what he said. Her
shuddering sobs floated after me through a right-hand doorway. It led into the bedroom.
A coffin sat beside the bed, dark wood, maybe cherry, varnished until it gleamed in the twilit dark. She
thought I came to kill her lover. Jesus.
The bathroom was small and cluttered. I hit the light switch, and the harsh yellow light was not kind. Her
makeup was scattered around the cracked sink like casualties. The tub was nearly rotted with rust. I
found what I hoped was a clean washrag and ran cold water over it. The water that trickled out was the
color of weak coffee. The pipes shuddered and clanked and whined. The water finally ran clear. It felt
good on my hands, but I didn't splash any on my neck or face. It would have been cool, but the
bathroom was dirty. I couldn't use the water, not if I didn't have to. I looked up as I squeezed the rag
out. The mirror was shattered, a spiderweb of cracks. It gave me my face back in broken pieces.
I didn't look in the mirror again. I walked back past the coffin and hesitated. I had an urge to knock on
the smooth wood. Anybody home? I didn't do it. For all I knew, someone might have knocked back.
Phillip had the woman on the couch. She was leaning against him, boneless, panting, but the crying had
almost stopped. She flinched when she saw me. I tried not to look menacing, something I'm good at, and
handed the rag to Phillip. "Wipe her face and put it against the back of her neck; it'll help."
He did what I asked, and she sat there with the damp rag against her neck, staring at me. Her eyes were
wide, a lot of white showing. She shivered.
I found the light switch, and harsh light flooded the room. One look at the room and I wanted to turn the
light off again, but I didn't. I thought Rebecca might attack me again if I sat beside her, or maybe she'd
have a complete breakdown. Wouldn't that be pretty? The only chair was lopsided and had yellowed
stuffing bulging out one side. I decided to stand.
Phillip looked up at me. His sunglasses were hooked over the front of his tank top. His eyes were wide
and careful, as if he didn't want me to know what he was thinking. One tanned arm was wrapped around
her shoulders, protective. I felt like a bully.
"I told her why we are here. I told her you wouldn't hurt Jack."
"The coffin?" I smiled. I couldn't help it. He was a "jack in the box."
"Yes," Phillip said. He stared at me as if grinning were not appropriate.
It wasn't, so I stopped, but it was something of an effort.



--------------------------------------- 88

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
I nodded. If Rebecca wanted to shack up with vampires, that was her business. It certainly wasn't police
business.
"Go on, Rebecca. She's trying to help us," Phillip said.
"Why?" she asked.
It was a good question. I had scared her and made her cry. I answered her question. "The master of the
city made me an offer I couldn't refuse."
She stared at me, studying my face, like she was committing me to memory. "I don't believe you," she
said.
I shrugged. That's what you get for telling the truth. Someone calls you a liar. Most people will accept a
likely lie to an unlikely truth. In fact, they prefer it.
"How could any vampire threaten The Executioner?" she asked.
I sighed. "I'm not the bogeyman, Rebecca. Have you ever met the master of the city?"
"No."
"Then you'll have to trust me. I am scared shitless of the master. Anybody in their right mind would be."
She still looked unconvinced, but she started talking. Her small, light voice told the same story she'd told
the police. Bland and useless as a new-minted penny.
"Rebecca, I am trying to catch the person, or thing, that killed lour boyfriend. Please help me."
Phillip hugged her. "Tell her what you told me."
She glanced at him, then back at me. She sucked her lower hp in and scraped it with her upper teeth,
thoughtful. She took a deep, shaky breath. "We were at a freak party that night."
I blinked, then tried to sound reasonably intelligent. "I know a freak is someone who likes vampires. Is a
freak party what I think it is?"
Phillip was the one who nodded. "I go to them a lot." He wouldn't look at me while he said it. "You can
have a vampire most any way you want it. And they can have you." He darted a glance at my face, then
down again. Maybe he didn't like what he saw.
I tried to keep my face blank, but I wasn't having much luck. A freak party, dear God. But it was
somewhere to start. "Did anything special happen at the party?" I asked.
She blinked at me, face blank, as if she didn't understand. I tried again. "Did anything out of the ordinary
happen at the freak party?" When in doubt, change your vocabulary.
She stared down into her lap and shook her head. Long, dark hair trailed over her face like a thin
curtain.
"Did Maurice have any enemies that you know of?"



--------------------------------------- 89

  G enerated b y ABC Amb er LIT Conv erter, http ://w w w .p rocesstext.com/ab clit.html
Rebecca shook her head without even looking up. I glimpsed her eyes through her hair like a frightened
rabbit staring out from behind a bush. Did she have more information, or had I used her up? If I pushed
she'd break, shatter, and maybe a clue would come spilling out, then again, maybe not. Her hands were
tangled in her lap, white-knuckled. They trembled ever so slightly. How badly did I want to know? Not
that badly. I let it go. Anita Blake, humanitarian.
Phillip tucked Rebecca in bed, while I waited in the living room. I half-expected to hear giggling or some
sound that said he was working his charm. There was nothing but the quiet murmur of voices and the
cool rustle of sheets. When he came out of the bedroom, his face was serious, solemn. He slipped his
glasses back on and hit the light switch. The room was a thick, hot darkness. I heard him move in the
ovenlike blackness. A rustle of jeans, a scrape of boot. I fumbled for the doorknob, found it, flung it
open.
Pale light spilled in. Phillip was standing, staring at me, eyes hidden. His body was relaxed, easy, but
somehow I could feel his hostility. We were no longer playing friends. I wasn't sure if he was angry with
me for some reason, or himself, or fate. When you end up with a life like Rebecca's, there should be
someone to blame.
"That could have been me," he said.
I looked at him. "But it wasn't."
He spread his arms wide, flexing. "But it could be."
I didn't know what to say to that. What could I say? There but for the grace of God go you? I doubted
God had much to do with Phillip's world.
Phillip made sure the door locked behind us, then said, "I know at least two other murdered vampires
were regulars on the party circuit."
My stomach tightened, a little flutter of excitement. "Do you think the rest of the . . . victims could be
freak aficionados?"
He shrugged. "I can find out." His face was still closed to me, blank. Something had turned off his
switch. Maybe it was Rebecca Miles's small, starved hands. I know it hadn't done a lot for me.
Could I trust him to find out? Would he tell me the truth? Would it endanger him? No answers, just more
questions, but at least the questions were getting better. Freak parties. A common thread, a real live clue.
Hot dog.
 
 
